TITLE: Mice in Bion-M 1 space mission: training and selection
ABSTRACT: a 16-year hiatus, Russia has resumed its program of biomedical research in space, with the successful 30-day flight of the Bion-M 1 biosatellite (April 19–May 19, 2013). The principal species for biomedical research in this project was the mouse. This paper presents an overview of the scientific goals, the experimental design and the mouse training/selection program. The aim of mice experiments in the Bion-M 1 project was to elucidate cellular and molecular mechanisms, underlying the adaptation of key physiological systems to long-term exposure in microgravity. The studies with mice combined in vivo measurements, both in flight and post-flight (including continuous blood pressure measurement), with extensive in vitro studies carried out shortly after return of the mice and in the end of recovery study. Male C57/BL6 mice group housed in space habitats were flown aboard the Bion-M 1 biosatellite, or remained on ground in the control experiment that replicated environmental and housing co...
METHODS: tools: AAA BS EI OV OD KA PS VS RB JA. Wrote the paper: AAA AP BS EI OV RB VS JA. Roles Nandu Goswami : Editor Received 2013 Dec 25; Accepted 2014 Jul 17; Collection date 2014. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Public Domain declaration, which stipulates that, once placed in the public domain, this work may be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, modified, built upon, or otherwise used by anyone for any lawful purpose. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC4136787 PMID: 25133741
RESULTS: the preliminary tests were used for the selection of homogenous groups. After the flight, mice were in good condition for biomedical studies and displayed signs of pronounced disadaptation to Earth's gravity. The outcomes of the training program for the mice welfare are discussed. We conclude that our training program was effective and that male mice can be successfully employed in space biomedical research. Introduction After a 16-year hiatus, Russia resumed in 2013 its program of biomedical research in space, with the successful 30-day flight of the Bion-M 1 biosatellite (April 19–May 19, 2013), a specially designed automated spacecraft dedicated to life-science experiments. “M” in the mission's name stands for “modernized”; the epithet was equally applicable to the spacecraft and the re...
---
TITLE: Neutrophil to Lymphocyte ratio: A biomarker to monitor the immune status of astronauts.
ABSTRACT: comprehensive understanding of spaceflight factors involved in immune dysfunction and the evaluation of biomarkers to assess in-flight astronaut health are essential goals for NASA. An elevated neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is a potential biomarker candidate, as leukocyte differentials are altered during spaceflight. In the reduced gravity environment of space, rodents and astronauts displayed elevated NLR and granulocyte-to-lymphocyte ratios (GLR), respectively. To simulate microgravity using two well-established ground-based models, we cultured human whole blood-leukocytes in high-aspect rotating wall vessels (HARV-RWV) and used hindlimb unloaded (HU) mice. Both HARV-RWV simulation of leukocytes and HU-exposed mice showed elevated NLR profiles comparable to spaceflight exposed samples. To assess mechanisms involved, we found the simulated microgravity HARV-RWV model resulted in an imbalance of redox processes and activation of myeloperoxidase-producing inflammatory neutrophils...
METHODS: leukocytes were cultured in high-aspect rotating wall vessels (HARV-RWV) in vitro and mice were hindlimb unloaded (HU) in vivo ( 32 , 33 ). HARV-RWV is a bioreactor allowing 3D-spatial freedom for cells and can model microgravity. It has two unique aspects similar to the spaceflight-associated microgravity environment, (1) a state of constant suspension, and (2) a quiescent surrounding without any shear or turbulent forces. Previous studies have determined leukocyte responses utilizing HARV-RWV produce similar responses as leukocytes cultured post-landing or ex vivo in flight ( 34 – 42 ). Hindlimb unloading (HU) is a ground-based model mimicking spaceflight-associated microgravity in rodents. The hindlimbs of rodents are elevated to produce 30–40 degree head-down tilt, inducing a cephalad ...
RESULTS: a disproportionate increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by the mitochondria ( 10 ) compared to antioxidants in the cell. Elevated ROS is also a product of the oxidative burst response of neutrophils ( 11 ). In response to stimuli, terminally differentiated neutrophils in circulation become activated and engage the oxidative burst response, producing inflammatory mediators ( 11 ). If left unchecked, elevated ROS can cause cellular damage that potentiates inflammation both on Earth and during spaceflight ( 4 , 12 ). Therefore, it is necessary to maintain tight regulation of the oxidative burst response to limit inflammation ( 13 ) and regulate immunity during prolonged spaceflight. Neutrophils are granulocytes that constitute approximately 50–70% of the total leukocyte populati...
---
TITLE: Fundamental plant biology enabled by the space shuttle.
ABSTRACT: initial characterization of the Aspergillus niger isolate JSC-093350089, collected from U.S. segment surfaces of the International Space Station (ISS), is reported, along with a comparison to the extensively studied strain ATCC 1015. Whole-genome sequencing of the ISS isolate enabled its phylogenetic placement within the A. niger / welwitschiae / lacticoffeatus clade and revealed that the genome of JSC-093350089 is within the observed genetic variance of other sequenced A. niger strains. The ISS isolate exhibited an increased rate of growth and pigment distribution compared to a terrestrial strain. Analysis of the isolate’s proteome revealed significant differences in the molecular phenotype of JSC-093350089, including increased abundance of proteins involved in the A. niger starvation response, oxidative stress resistance, cell wall modulation, and nutrient acquisition. Together, these data reveal the existence of a distinct strain of A. niger on board the ISS and provide insight into...
METHODS: the U.S. segment of the ISS. Due to the nature of this sampling method, it is impossible to know the exact duration of time that this strain was on the ISS. The 36.08-Mb genome sequence of JSC-093350089 was generated using whole-genome paired-end sequencing (WGS), which was further improved to high-quality assemblies of 223 scaffolds possessing 12,532 coding sequences and 287 tRNAs. The JSC-093350089 genome was similar in size to other A. niger genomes, which typically range from 34.0 to 36.5 Mb ( 25 – 27 ). To further verify the identity of JSC-093350089 and place it into the larger context of the A. niger / welwitschiae / lacticoffeatus clade, phylogeny was assessed using maximum likelihood ( Fig. 1 ). Of the A. niger strains surveyed, the ISS isolate displayed the closest phylogenetic r...
RESULTS: decreased transfer of extracellular nutrients and metabolic by-products, causing the cell to be exposed to a completely different chemical environment ( 11 ). The inside cabin of the ISS is exposed to a complex radiation environment ( 12 ), at levels that are not fungicidal ( 13 ), permitting fungi to thrive. Radiation primarily interacts with biological systems through the ionization and excitation of electrons in molecules, and its strong mutagenic properties result in an increased rate of biological evolution ( 14 ). Further, radiation can have many harmful effects on biological systems, which results in the development of adaptive responses. Fungi inhabiting spacecraft are also forced to acclimate to reduced nutrient availability, as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (N...
---
TITLE: Organ-specific remodeling of the Arabidopsis transcriptome in response to spaceflight.
ABSTRACT: have been recognized as key components of bioregenerative life support systems for space exploration, and many experiments have been carried out to evaluate their adaptability to spaceflight. Unfortunately, few of these experiments have involved monocot plants, which constitute most of the crops used on Earth as sources of food, feed, and fiber. To better understand the ability of monocot plants to adapt to spaceflight, we germinated and grew Brachypodium distachyon seedlings of the Bd21, Bd21-3, and Gaz8 accessions in a customized growth unit on the International Space Station, along with 1-g ground controls. At the end of a 4-day growth period, seedling organ’s growth and morphologies were quantified, and root and shoot transcriptomic profiles were investigated using RNA-seq. The roots of all three accessions grew more slowly and displayed longer root hairs under microgravity conditions relative to ground control. On the other hand, the shoots of Bd21-3 and Gaz-8 grew at similar rate...
METHODS: revealed potential contributions of Ca 2+ , light and reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling, cell wall remodeling, and defense responses in plant adaptation to the spaceflight environment [ 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 ]. Some of these expression changes were accompanied by alterations in the pattern of CNG and CNN DNA methylation in the proximity of the corresponding genes, suggesting some epigenetic contribution to the process [ 24 ]. Interestingly, a short root-hair phenotype displayed by Arabidopsis seedlings grown in the BRIC hardware onboard the Space Shuttle Discovery (STS-131) was accompanied by decreased expression of genes associated with oxidative stress (such as peroxidases) and cell wall remodeling, and reverse genetics demonstrated a con...
RESULTS: a need to directly evaluate candidate-crop responses to microgravity to better understand their specific adaptability to this novel environment and develop cultivation strategies allowing them to strive during spaceflight. Keywords: Brachypodium distachyon , Bd21, Bd21-3, Gaz8, microgravity, International Space Station, APEX Growth Unit, VEGGIE, adaptation, seedling growth, transcriptomics 1. Introduction On Earth, plants are exposed to a unidirectional 1-g force that guides the growth of their organs (gravitropism). Furthermore, the weight imposed by gravity on each organ results in a mechanical load that must be counteracted by thick, sturdy cell walls and specialized morphologies. Millions of years of evolution on Earth have assured the effectiveness of these gravitropic, gravi-resistan...
---
TITLE: A method for preparing spaceflight RNAlater-fixed Arabidopsis thaliana (Brassicaceae) tissue for scanning electron microscopy.
ABSTRACT: of the study: In spaceflight experiments, tissues for morphologic study are fixed in 3% glutaraldehyde, while tissues for molecular study are fixed in RNA later ; thus, an experiment containing both study components requires multiple fixation strategies. The possibility of using RNA later -fixed
METHODS: standard SEM-based morphometric investigation was explored to expand the library of tissues available for analysis and maximize usage of samples returned from spaceflight, but these technologies have wide application to any situation where recovery of biological resources is limited. •
RESULTS: later -fixed samples were desalinated in distilled water, dehydrated through graded methanol, plunged into liquid ethane, and transferred to cryovials for freeze-substitution. Sample tissues were critical point dried, mounted, sputter-coated, and imaged. •
---
TITLE: ARG1 Functions in the Physiological Adaptation of Undifferentiated Plant Cells to Spaceflight
ABSTRACT: access to spaceflight and especially the International Space Station has revealed that physiological adaptation to spaceflight is accompanied or enabled by changes in gene expression that significantly alter the transcriptome of cells in spaceflight. A wide range of experiments have shown that plant physiological adaptation to spaceflight involves gene expression changes that alter cell wall and other metabolisms. However, while transcriptome profiling aptly illuminates changes in gene expression that accompany spaceflight adaptation, mutation analysis is required to illuminate key elements required for that adaptation. Here we report how transcriptome profiling was used to gain insight into the spaceflight adaptation role of Altered response to gravity 1 ( Arg1 ), a gene known to affect gravity responses in plants on Earth. The study compared expression profiles of cultured lines of Arabidopsis thaliana derived from wild-type (WT) cultivar Col-0 to profiles from a knock-out line defic...
METHODS: 1. Concept of operations and comparison approach When a cell transitions from Earth to orbit, it responds and begins to adjust its metabolism to the stimuli offered by the new environment. In this experiment, the patterns of gene expression established after 10 days of growth in the BRIC hardware were used to illuminate the strategies undifferentiated cells used to physiologically adapt to the spaceflight environment. Microarray gene expression data were analyzed using a two-part approach. First, differentially expressed genes were identified between cells grown in the two environments: spaceflight and the comparable ground controls. The genes identified in this “vertical” comparison reflected physiological adaptation to the spaceflight environment within each genotype. Second, differentia...
RESULTS: the spaceflight experiment presented here have enhanced our understanding of ARG1's role in adjusting to this novel environment and have also enabled us to look further into the adaptive process engaged by cells lacking specific, differentiated cells and organs for environmental sensing. 2.
---
TITLE: A Member of the CONSTANS-Like Protein Family is a Putative Regulator of ROS Homeostasis and Spaceflight Physiological Adaptation
ABSTRACT: feature of the physiological adaptation to spaceflight in Arabidopsis thaliana ( Arabidopsis ) is the induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-associated gene expression. The patterns of ROS-associated gene expression vary among Arabidopsis ecotypes, and the role of ROS signalling in spaceflight acclimation is unknown. What could differences in ROS gene regulation between ecotypes on orbit reveal about physiological adaptation to novel environments? Analyses of ecotype-dependent responses to spaceflight resulted in the elucidation of a previously uncharacterized gene ( OMG1 ) as being ROS-associated. The OMG1 5′ flanking region is an active promoter in cells where ROS activity is commonly observed, such as in pollen tubes, root hairs, and in other tissues upon wounding. qRT-PCR analyses revealed that upon wounding on Earth, OMG1 is an apparent transcriptional regulator of MYB77 and GRX480 , which are associated with the ROS pathway. Fluorescence-based ROS assays show that OMG1 affect...
METHODS: analysis The ROSMETER tool assesses the ROS-related transcriptomic signature in a large-scale Arabidopsis gene expression data set ( Rosenwasser et al. 2013 ). Arabidopsis gene expression profiles from two independent spaceflight experiments, APEX01 and Advanced Plant Experiment 03-2 (APEX03-2), along with their corresponding ground controls, were used to correlate differential gene expression in spaceflight with specific ROS species and origins. The APEX01 experiment utilized two ecotypes and both were planted on each plate of the experiment. Since the entire plate was harvested on orbit to a single tube, the subsequent transcriptomic analyses comprised 60 % Wassilewskija (WS) and 40 % Col-0 ( Paul et al. 2013b ). In the APEX03-2 data set, WS and Col-0 were kept on separate plates, harves...
RESULTS: with the novel environment of spaceflight, further the understanding of plant growth and development and provide insight into the role of a heretofore unknown gene.
---
TITLE: HSFA2 Functions in the Physiological Adaptation of Undifferentiated Plant Cells to Spaceflight.
ABSTRACT: Shock Factor A2 (HsfA2) is part of the Heat Shock Factor (HSF) network, and plays an essential role beyond heat shock in environmental stress responses and cellular homeostatic control. Arabidopsis thaliana cell cultures derived from wild type (WT) ecotype Col-0 and a knockout line deficient in the gene encoding HSFA2 (HSFA2 KO) were grown aboard the International Space Station (ISS) to ascertain whether the HSF network functions in the adaptation to the novel environment of spaceflight. Microarray gene expression data were analyzed using a two-part comparative approach. First, genes differentially expressed between the two environments (spaceflight to ground) were identified within the same genotype, which represented physiological adaptation to spaceflight. Second, gene expression profiles were compared between the two genotypes (HSFA2 KO to WT) within the same environment, which defined genes uniquely required by each genotype on the ground and in spaceflight-adapted states.
METHODS: 1. The CEL Experiment of BRIC17 For details on the CEL experiment of BRIC17, please see [ 28 ], and Figure 1 , which provides images of the BRIC Hardware and cells used in these analyses. Briefly, the CEL BRIC17 experiment was launched in the Dragon capsule of SpaceX-3 Commercial Resupply Service (CRS) mission to the International Space Station (ISS) on the 1st of March 2013. The cultured cell lines (both the ground control and the spaceflight samples) were grown within 60 mm Petri plates in Petri Dish Fixation Units (PDFUs) that were housed within the Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC) hardware. The PDFU/BRIC system is a passive, air-tight, non-ventilated, non-illuminated culture system. The BRIC system is certainly not an optimal habitat for plant growth, and its limitations have be...
RESULTS: that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response (UPR) define the HSFA2 KO cells’ physiological state irrespective of the environment, and likely resulted from a deficiency in the chaperone-mediated protein folding machinery in the mutant. Results further suggested that additional to its universal stress response role, HsfA2 also has specific roles in the physiological adaptation to spaceflight through cell wall remodeling, signal perception and transduction, and starch biosynthesis. Disabling HsfA2 altered the physiological state of the cells, and impacted the mechanisms induced to adapt to spaceflight, and identified HsfA2 -dependent genes that are important to the adaption of wild type cells to spaceflight. Collectively these data indicate a non-thermal role for ...
---
TITLE: Beyond low-Earth orbit: Characterizing immune and microRNA differentials following simulated deep spaceflight conditions in mice.
ABSTRACT: missions can cause immune system dysfunction in astronauts with little understanding of immune outcomes in deep space. This study assessed immune responses in mice following ground-based, simulated deep spaceflight conditions, compared with data from astronauts on International Space Station missions. For ground studies, we simulated microgravity using the hindlimb unloaded mouse model alone or in combination with acute simulated galactic cosmic rays or solar particle events irradiation. Immune profiling
METHODS: h post-irradiation (day 14), mice were euthanized and blood and tissues were collected. Body weights were measured on days −3, 0, 7, and 14. Tissue weights were measured on collection day 14. (B–G) (B) Body weights were measured on days −3, 0, 7, and 14. Immune organ weights of the spleen (C) and the thymus (D) were performed on collection day 14 and normalized to total body weight (g/g). Flow cytometric gating scheme to collect singlets, remove doublets, (“DD” denotes doublet discrimination), and identify CD45 + events (E). Percent (%) (F) and absolute counts (G) of total leukocyte populations (CD45 + /all doublet discriminated events, DD) displayed for each exposure group. A Grubbs test was performed on all datasets followed by testing for normal distribution via a Kolmogorov-Smirnov tes...
RESULTS: unique immune diversity following each experimental condition, suggesting each stressor results in distinct circulating immune responses, with clear consequences for deep spaceflight. Circulating plasma microRNA sequence analysis revealed involvement in immune system dysregulation. Furthermore, a large astronaut cohort showed elevated inflammation during low-Earth orbit missions, thereby supporting our simulated ground experiments in mice. Herein, circulating immune biomarkers are defined by distinct deep space irradiation types coupled to simulated microgravity and could be targets for future space health initiatives. Subject Areas: Immunology, Space Sciences Graphical
---
TITLE: Plant growth strategies are remodeled by spaceflight
ABSTRACT: During medium- to long-duration spaceflights, real-time microgravity can increase the health risks of astronauts. In particular, the disruption of intestinal homeostasis is closely related to other health problems, and it is necessary to monitor related treatment strategies. Ginseng is a well-known Chinese herbal medicine often used to maintain health. Ginseng total saponins (GTSs), which are the bioactive components of ginseng, have been reported to regulate immune homeostasis, anti-inflammation, and anti-oxidation. This study focused on the regulation of GTSs in intestinal homeostasis imbalance caused by microgravity.
METHODS: hindlimb suspension (HLS) rat model was established to evaluate the intestinal protective effects of GTSs. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened using RNA-Seq. RT-PCR was performed to further focus and verify these
RESULTS: gut microbiome composition was examined based on 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, and the short-chain fatty acids produced were further analyzed. Results We found that GTSs intervention effectively improved the intestinal injury caused by simulated weightlessness, including reducing the pathological damage, increasing the expression of tight junction proteins and reducing the levels of inflammatory factors. Moreover, GTSs treatment significantly restored the levels of intestinal immunity-related genes and remodeled the gut microbiota. In particular, GTSs significantly increased the abundance of short-chain fatty acid metabolism-related bacteria, thereby increasing the level of propionic acid, butyric acid, isobutyric acid.
---
TITLE: Immunological and hematological outcomes following protracted low dose/low dose rate ionizing radiation and simulated microgravity
ABSTRACT: a ground-based model to simulate spaceflight [21-days of single-housed, hindlimb unloading (HLU) combined with continuous low-dose gamma irradiation (LDR, total dose of 0.04 Gy)], an in-depth survey of the immune and hematological systems of mice at 7-days post-exposure was performed. Collected blood was profiled with a hematology analyzer and spleens were analyzed by whole transcriptome shotgun sequencing (RNA-sequencing). The
METHODS: conditions Six-month-old, female C57BL/6J mice (Jackson Laboratory) were acclimatized in standard habitats at 20 °C with a 12 h:12 h light:dark cycle for 7 days. Following acclimatization, animals were housed one per cage and assigned to one of four groups: (1) control ( n = 6); (2) hindlimb unloaded (HLU) ( n = 3); (3) low-dose irradiated (LDR, total dose 0.04 Gy) ( n = 6); and (4) simSpace, combination of hindlimb unloaded and low-dose irradiated (HLU + LDR) ( n = 6) for 21 days. Low-dose/low-dose rate was delivered using 57 Co plates (a total dose of 0.04 Gy at 0.01 cGy/h) placed 7 cm below the cages, with 1 plate per 2 cages for whole-body irradiation. Uniformity of dose was ± 5%, as previously described 18 – 22 . Post-exposure animals were group housed (3 per cage) for 7-days. Commerc...
RESULTS: negligible differences in immune differentials. However, hematological system analyses of whole blood indicated large disparities in red blood cell differentials and morphology, suggestive of anemia. Murine Reactome networks indicated majority of spleen cells displayed differentially expressed genes (DEG) involved in signal transduction, metabolism, cell cycle, chromatin organization, and DNA repair. Although immune differentials were not changed, DEG analysis of the spleen revealed expression profiles associated with inflammation and dysregulated immune function persist to 1-week post-simulated spaceflight. Additionally, specific regulation pathways associated with human blood disease gene orthologs, such as blood pressure regulation, transforming growth factor-β receptor signaling, and B...
---
TITLE: Epigenomic regulators elongator complex subunit 2 and methyltransferase 1 differentially condition the spaceflight response in Arabidopsis
ABSTRACT: Plants subjected to the novel environment of spaceflight show transcriptomic changes that resemble aspects of several terrestrial abiotic stress responses. Under investigation here is whether epigenetic modulations, similar to those that occur in terrestrial stress responses, have a functional role in spaceflight physiological adaptation. The Advanced Plant Experiment-04 – Epigenetic Expression experiment examined the role of cytosine methylation in spaceflight adaptation. The experiment was conducted onboard the International Space Station, and evaluated the spaceflight-altered, genome-wide methylation profiles of two methylation-regulating gene mutants [methyltransferase 1 ( met1-7) and elongator complex subunit 2 ( elp2-5 )] along with a wild-type Col-0 control.
METHODS: Material and Experimental Design Three lines of Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) were used: Columbia-0 (Col-0) wild-type (TAIR CS70000), and Col-0 mutants met1-7 and elp2-5 genotype. Mutants met1-7 and elp2-5 previously described in Kanno et al. (2008) , Guo et al. (2013) , Wang et al. (2013) , and were kindly provided by Dr. Zhonglin Mou ( Wang et al., 2013 ). Sterilized seeds from each line were sown aseptically onto Petri dishes (100 mm × 15 mm; Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, United States), containing 50 mL of a 0.5% Phytagel-based growth medium supplemented with: 0.5 × Murashige–Skoog salts, 0.5% (w/v) sucrose, and 1 × Gamborg’s Vitamin Mixture, and then sealed with breathable tape (3M Micropore ® , Maplewood, MN, United States; e.g., Califar et al., 2020 ). Seeded plates were p...
RESULTS: elp2-5 plants suffered in their physiological adaptation to spaceflight in that their roots failed to extend away from the seed and the overall development of the plants was greatly impaired in space. The met1-7 plants suffered less, with their morphology affected by spaceflight in a manner similar to that of the Col-0 controls. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in spaceflight were dramatically different in the elp2-5 and met1-7 plants compared to Col-0, indicating that the disruptions in these mutants resulted in a reprogramming of their spaceflight responses, especially in elp2-5 . Many of the genes comprising the spaceflight transcriptome of each genotype were differentially methylated in spaceflight. In Col-0 the majority of the DEGs were representative of the now familiar spac...
---
TITLE: Plants grown in Apollo lunar regolith present stress-associated transcriptomes that inform prospects for lunar exploration
ABSTRACT: extent to which plants can enhance human life support on other worlds depends on the ability of plants to thrive in extraterrestrial environments using in-situ resources. Using samples from Apollo 11, 12, and 17, we show that the terrestrial plant Arabidopsis thaliana germinates and grows in diverse lunar regoliths. However, our
METHODS: terrestrial biology were unaddressed in the era of modern molecular biology, and there had yet to be any experiments where plants were actually grown in the true lunar regolith. Understanding the impact of sustained exposure of terrestrial biology to lunar regolith, and determining the efficacy of lunar regolith as a viable in situ resource, is important to the concept of returning to the Moon for long durations. Therefore, we used plant growth and gene expression (e.g., 11 – 13 ) to both tests the fundamental impact of lunar regolith on terrestrial biology, and provide an initial evaluation of regolith as a matrix for plant growth systems in lunar exploration habitats. Plants are key components of the biological sciences within and in support of space exploration. As model organisms, plan...
RESULTS: that growth is challenging; the lunar regolith plants were slow to develop and many showed severe stress morphologies. Moreover, all plants grown in lunar soils differentially expressed genes indicating ionic stresses, similar to plant reactions to salt, metal and reactive oxygen species. Therefore, although in situ lunar regoliths can be useful for plant production in lunar habitats, they are not benign substrates. The interaction between plants and lunar regolith will need to be further elucidated, and likely mitigated, to best enable efficient use of lunar regolith for life support within lunar stations. Subject terms: Abiotic, Transcriptomics, Plant molecular biology Arabidopsis plants were seeded onto lunar soil samples taken directly from the Apollo 11, 12, and 17 missions. Transcrip...
---
TITLE: Artificial gravity partially protects space-induced neurological deficits in Drosophila melanogaster.
ABSTRACT: poses risks to the central nervous system (CNS), and understanding neurological responses is important for future missions. We report CNS changes in Drosophila aboard the International Space Station in response to microgravity (SFμg) and artificially simulated Earth gravity (SF1g) via inflight centrifugation as a countermeasure. While inflight behavioral analyses of SFμg exhibit increased activity, postflight analysis displays significant climbing defects, highlighting the sensitivity of behavior to altered gravity. Multi-omics analysis shows alterations in metabolic, oxidative stress, and synaptic transmission pathways in both SFμg and SF1g; however, neurological changes immediately postflight, including neuronal loss, glial cell count alterations, oxidative damage, and apoptosis, are seen only in SFμg. Additionally, progressive neuronal loss and a glial phenotype in SF1g and SFμg brains, with pronounced phenotypes in SFμg, are seen upon acclimation to Earth conditions. Overall, our
METHODS: D.M, J.I., and R.G.; Software, R.M.D.B., S.V.C., J.P., A.T., M.J.and S.G.; Formal Analysis, S.D.M., J.I., A.M.P., A.T., M.J., J.P., D.R.Q., and R.J.W; Data curation, A.T., J.P., D.R.Q., and R.J.W.; Writing – Original Draft, S.D.M., and J.I.; Writing – Review & Editing, S.B, S.D.M., J.I., S.G, S.V.C., S.A., and M.B.S.; Funding Acquisition, S.B. Supervision, S.B. * Correspondence: sharmila.bhattacharya@nasa.gov PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC10503492 NIHMSID: NIHMS1881633 PMID: 36070701 The publisher's version of this article is available at Cell Rep
RESULTS: that artificial gravity partially protects the CNS from the adverse effects of spaceflight. Introduction Exploration missions to the Moon and Mars would expose astronauts to environmental challenges, including gravitational changes, ionizing radiation, altered circadian rhythm, elevated CO 2 , and isolation. Human acclimation to these environments presents complex health effects, with acute and prolonged consequences in multiple tissues that may result in increased risk to crew health and performance during the mission ( Afshinnekoo et al., 2020 ; Crucian et al., 2015 ; Garrett-Bakelman et al., 2019; Grimm et al., 2016 ; Indo et al., 2016 ; Kononikhin et al., 2017 ; Wilson et al., 2018 ). With a high concentration of oxidizable, unsaturated lipids, low levels of antioxidant defenses, and h...
---
TITLE: Utilizing the KSC fixation tube to conduct human-tended plant biology experiments on a suborbital spaceflight
ABSTRACT: spaceflights now enable human-tended research investigating short-term gravitational effects in biological systems, eliminating the need for complex automation. Here, we discuss a method utilizing KSC Fixation Tubes (KFTs) to both carry biology to suborbital space as well as fix that biology at certain stages of flight. Plants on support media were inserted into the sample side of KFTs preloaded with RNAlater in the fixation chamber. The KFTs were activated at various stages of a simulated flight to fix the plants. RNA-seq analysis conducted on tissue samples housed in KFTs, showed that plants behaved consistently in KFTs when compared to petri-plates. Over the time course, roots adjusted to hypoxia and leaves adjusted to changes in photosynthesis. These responses were due in part to the environment imposed by the encased triple containment of the KFTs, which is a requirement for flight in human spacecraft. While plants exhibited expected reproducible transcriptomic alteration over tim...
METHODS: &
RESULTS: processed with the HTSeq (High-Throughput Sequence Analysis in Python, v0.11.2) [ 12 ] samtools, and scripts developed in house at ICBR of UF to remove potential PCR duplicates, choose and count uniquely mapped reads for gene expression analysis. The counted reads of each gene were analyzed by a DESeq2-based R pipeline. Significant up- and down-regulated genes were selected using the threshold of −1.0 < Log2FoldChange < 1.0 and p -value ≤ 0.05. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis was performed using g:GOSt ( https://biit.cs.ut.ee/gprofiler/gost , accessed on 11 November 2022.) with default settings to obtain terms of GO biological process. 3. Results and
---
TITLE: Post-Spaceflight (STS-135) Mouse Splenocytes Demonstrate Altered Activation Properties and Surface Molecule Expression.
ABSTRACT: in immune function have been documented during or post-spaceflight and in ground based models of microgravity. Identification of immune parameters that are dysregulated during spaceflight is an important step in mitigating crew health risks during deep space missions. The in vitro analysis of leukocyte activity post-spaceflight in both human and animal species is primarily focused on lymphocytic function. This report completes a broader spectrum analysis of mouse lymphocyte and monocyte changes post 13 days orbital flight (mission STS-135). Analysis includes an examination in surface markers for cell activation, and antigen presentation and co-stimulatory molecules. Cytokine production was measured after stimulation with T-cell mitogen or TLR-2, TLR-4, or TLR-5 agonists. Splenocyte surface marker analysis immediate post-spaceflight and after in vitro culture demonstrated unique changes in phenotypic populations between the flight mice and matched treatment ground controls. Post-spacefl...
METHODS: tools: JKA SAH BC CS. Wrote the paper: JKA SAH BC. ✉ * E-mail: Jeffrey.K.Actor@uth.tmc.edu # Contributed equally. Roles Kamaleshwar Singh : Academic Editor Received 2015 Jan 9; Accepted 2015 Mar 2; Collection date 2015. © 2015 Hwang et al This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are properly credited. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC4430214 PMID: 25970640
RESULTS: relevant and important, even in light of inclusion of mice that received the bone loss experimental drug. Mouse Splenocytes Processing Animals were retrieved approximately 1 hour following deorbit, and sacrificed within 3–5 hours post flight, collected on July 21, 2011 at Kennedy Space Center (Cape Canaveral, FL). Mice were euthanized using 4% isoflurane followed by cardiac puncture and exsanguinations [ 28 ]. Half of the spleen was processed as previously described [ 28 ]. Briefly, the organ was homonenized between glass slides, RBC lysed with ACK buffer (Lonza), washed twice with 1x Cellgro Dulbecco’s Phosphate Buffer Saline (PBS, Mediatech), and cultured in complete DMEM media [Dulbecco’s Modified Eagles Medium (Sigma) supplemented with 2.2g/L sodium bicarbonate, 0.05g/L of HEPES (Sigma...
---
TITLE: Spaceflight transcriptomes: unique responses to a novel environment.
ABSTRACT: presents a unique environment with complex stressors, including microgravity and radiation, that can influence plant physiology at molecular levels. Combining transcriptomics and proteomics approaches, this research gives insights into the coordination of transcriptome and proteome in Arabidopsis’ molecular and physiological responses to Spaceflight environmental stress. Arabidopsis seedlings were germinated and grown in microgravity (µ g ) aboard the International Space Station (ISS) in NASA Biological Research in Canisters – Light Emitting Diode (BRIC LED) hardware, with the ground control established on Earth. At 10 days old, seedlings were frozen in RNA-later and returned to Earth. RNA-seq transcriptomics and TMT-labeled LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis of cellular fractionates from the plant tissues suggest the alteration of the photosynthetic machinery (PSII and PSI) in spaceflight, with the plant shifting photosystem core-regulatory proteins in an organ-specific manner to adapt to th...
METHODS: the stage for high throughput analyses that investigates the effects of spaceflight on plants from a molecular and functional perspective ( Hughes and Kiss, 2022 ). This allows the physiological effects of the spaceflight environment to be characterized beyond phenotyping and extensively mapped out along broader biochemical pathways and cryptic signaling molecular cascades. While some remarkable advancements in genomic and transcriptomics studies of plants in spaceflight have been widely recorded ( Ferl et al., 2002 ; Paul et al., 2012 ; Barker et al., 2023 ), such studies have largely been conducted in isolation, independent of proteomics. Unlike genomic and transcriptomic studies, proteomics studies face certain limitations in the spaceflight context, predominantly due to the limited ava...
RESULTS: 1. Transcriptomics and proteomics recovery in the BRIC LED experiment The differential analysis of the transcriptome expressed between spaceflight and ground control Arabidopsis samples yielded 15,505 distinctly mapped RNA transcripts, with 2,474 being statistically significant at adjusted p <0.05. Of this, 195 RNA are upregulated in spaceflight at L 2 FC RNA ≥1, while 761 are downregulated in spaceflight at L 2 FC RNA ≤−1 ( Figure 1A ). Protein extraction from the different organs (root and shoot) and across the cellular fractions (soluble and membrane) led to the quantification, in the root, of 20,923 peptides mapped to 3973 membrane proteins and 18,636 peptides mapped to 3412 soluble proteins. Similar to this, in the shoot, 20,658 peptides were mapped to 3965 membrane proteins and 20,09...
---
TITLE: The 14-3-3 proteins of Arabidopsis regulate root growth and chloroplast development as components of the photosensory system.
ABSTRACT: 14-3-3 proteins specifically bind a number of client proteins to influence important pathways, including flowering timing via the photosensory system. For instance, 14-3-3 proteins influence the photosensory system through interactions with Constans (CO) protein. 14-3-3 associations with the photosensory system were further studied in this investigation using 14-3-3 T-DNA insertion mutants to study root and chloroplast development. The 14-3-3 μ T-DNA insertion mutant, 14-3-3μ-1 , had shorter roots than the wild type and the difference in root length could be influenced by light intensity. The 14-3-3 ν T-DNA insertion mutants also had shorter roots, but only when grown under narrow-bandwidth red light. Five-day-old 14-3-3 T-DNA insertion and co mutants all had increased root greening compared with the wild type, which was influenced by light wavelength and intensity. However, beyond 10 d of growth, 14-3-3μ-1 roots did not increase in greening as much as wild-type roots. This study revea...
METHODS: conditions of Arabidopsis seedlings Arabidopsis seeds were sterilized as previously described by Paul et al. (2001) . Thirty to forty seeds of each line were planted onto 0.5× MS vertical plates, which consisted of 0.22% MS salts ( Murashige and Skoog, 1962 ), 0.025% MES buffer, 0.5% sucrose, 0.1% 1000× MS vitamins ( Murashige and Skoog, 1962 ), and 0.8% agar. Nitrate-free media were prepared as above, except that the MS salt mix was substituted for nitrogen-free MS salt mix (Product #MSP007; Caisson Laboratories, Logan, UT), 1 mM ammonium citrate was added and the media was adjusted to a pH of 6.5. After planting, the seed-containing plates were incubated at 4 °C in the dark for 48 h. The plates were then placed under the appropriate light conditions. Constant-light-grown seedlings were g...
RESULTS: delayed flowering, while knockout results in early flowering. These 14-3-3 mutant phenotypes indicate a role in light-related signalling for these particular 14-3-3 isoforms. The relationship of 14-3-3 proteins with light signalling is further supported by the observation that 14-3-3 proteins bind the blue light photoreceptor Phototropin 1 (PHOT1) ( Kinoshita et al. , 2003 ) and the flowering timing regulation protein Constans (CO) ( Mayfield et al. , 2007 ), as well as downstream targets such as Flowering Timing (FT) and Self-Pruning (SP) ( Pnueli et al. , 2001 ). Light perception is broadly important for phototropic responses, time of flowering, and root development. For example, Red and far-red light influence the directional growth of roots. Roots of some plants, such as maize and rice...
---
TITLE: Conservation of the low-shear modeled microgravity response in Enterobacteriaceae and analysis of the trp genes in this response.
ABSTRACT: fluid shear force, including that encountered in microgravity models, induces bacterial responses, but the range of bacteria capable of responding to this signal remains poorly characterized. We systematically analyzed a range of Gram negative Enterobacteriaceae for conservation of the low-shear modeled microgravity (LSMMG) response using phenotypic assays, qPCR, and targeted mutations. Our
METHODS: Wall Vessel (RWV) Cultures Cultures were grown in the RWV in LB (Lennox) broth as previously described [ 3 , 4 , 7 ]. Experimental set-up with RWV cultures is depicted in Fig. ( 1 ). The RWV apparatus used was model RCCS-1 from Synthecon, Inc., Houston, TX as used in previous studies [ 3 , 4 , 7 ]. Strains used in this study were as follows: S. Typhimurium χ3339 [ 29 ], E. coli TOP10 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), E. coli MG1655 [ 30 ], E. coli DH5a (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), E. coli AS11 [ 31 ], E. cloacae ATCC23355 [ 32 ], C. freundii ATCC8090 [ 32 ], and S. marcescens ATCC14041 [ 33 ]. Stress Assays and qPCR Acid and oxidative stress assays were performed as previously described [ 3 , 4 , 7 ]. The qPCR reactions were performed as previously described using 16S rRNA and lpxC genes for norm...
RESULTS: LSMMG response conservation across Enterobacteriacae with potential variance in up- or down-regulation of a given response depending on genus. Based on the data, we analyzed the role of the trp operon genes and the TrpR regulator in the LSMMG response using targeted mutations in these genes in S. Typhimurium and E. coli . We found no alteration of the LSMMG response compared to WT in these mutant strains under the conditions tested here. To our knowledge, this study is first-of-kind for Citrobacter, Enterobacter , and Serratia, presents novel data for Escherichia , and provides the first analysis of trp genes in LSMMG responses. This impacts our understanding of how LSMMG affects bacteria and our ability to modify bacteria with this condition in the future. Keywords: Enterobacteriaceae, en...
---
TITLE: Spaceflight enhances cell aggregation and random budding in Candida albicans.
ABSTRACT: study presents the first global transcriptional profiling and phenotypic characterization of the major human opportunistic fungal pathogen, Candida albicans , grown in spaceflight conditions. Microarray analysis revealed that C. albicans subjected to short-term spaceflight culture differentially regulated 452 genes compared to synchronous ground controls, which represented 8.3% of the analyzed ORFs. Spaceflight-cultured C. albicans –induced genes involved in cell aggregation (similar to flocculation), which was validated by microscopic and flow cytometry analysis. We also observed enhanced random budding of spaceflight-cultured cells as opposed to bipolar budding patterns for ground samples, in accordance with the gene expression data. Furthermore, genes involved in antifungal agent and stress resistance were differentially regulated in spaceflight, including induction of ABC transporters and members of the major facilitator family, downregulation of ergosterol-encoding genes, and upre...
METHODS: 1–11. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 3. Nickerson CA, Ott CM, Wilson JW, Ramamurthy R, Pierson DL (2004) Microbial responses to microgravity and other low-shear environments. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev 68: 345–361. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 4. Sonnenfeld G (2005) The immune system in space, including Earth-based benefits of space-based research. Curr Pharm Biotechnol 6: 343–349. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 5. McCullough MJ, Ross BC, Reade PC (1996) Candida albicans : a review of its history, taxonomy, epidemiology, virulence attributes, and methods of strain differentiation. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg 25: 136–144. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 6. Taylor GR (1974) Recovery of medically important microorganisms from Apollo astronauts. Aer...
RESULTS: expression General observations Whole genome expression profiling was used to identify gene expression alterations in C. albicans in response to culture in spaceflight conditions as compared to identical synchronous ground controls. The C. albicans microarrays used to assess differential gene expression between flight and ground samples included 6,346 of the 6,742 predicted ORFs annotated in assembly 19 of the C. albicans SC5314 genome ( Table S1 ) [50] . Of those 6,346 ORFs, there were 5,432 that exhibited a robust response suitable for statistical analysis. Data analysis was restricted to genes that had high intensity on the array and were differentially expressed by at least 2-fold and a p-value <0.05. Of these, 452 (or 8.3% of the analyzed ORFs) were differentially expressed in respons...
---
TITLE: Effects of Sex and Gender on Adaptation to Space: Immune System
ABSTRACT: address urgent need for strategies to limit mortality from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), this review describes experimental, clinical and epidemiological evidence that suggests that chronic sub-optimal hydration in the weeks before infection might increase risk of COVID-19 mortality in multiple ways. Sub-optimal hydration is associated with key risk factors for COVID-19 mortality, including older age, male sex, race-ethnicity and chronic disease. Chronic hypertonicity, total body water deficit and/or hypovolemia cause multiple intracellular and/or physiologic adaptations that preferentially retain body water and favor positive total body water balance when challenged by infection. Via effects on serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (SGK1) signaling, aldosterone, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), aquaporin 5 (AQP5) and/or Na + /K + -ATPase, chronic sub-optimal hydration in the weeks before exposure to COVID-19 may conceivably r...
METHODS: determining saliva osmolality, RBC K:Na, half-life of water in the body and body weight change are described elsewhere [32] , [31] . After a baseline period, the Adapt study induced increases in drinking water of 1L/d or more above baseline, which were sustained for 4 weeks. Saliva, blood and body weight were measured each week. Each week, saliva and blood were collected 60 min after a 750 ml bolus of drinking water following overnight food and water restriction. The saliva and blood results in this table thus reflect status in the hour after an acute hypotonic challenge, at baseline and after 4 weeks of sustained higher water intake. SGK1: Human SGK1 gene expression analysis by qPCR. Total RNA from human whole blood was isolated using PAXgene Blood miRNA extraction kit, according to the m...
RESULTS: an imbalance between passive and active forces driving fluid into the airspaces and mechanisms removing fluid from the airspace [15] , [16] . The multiplicity of factors influencing the balance of forces suggests need for intervention strategies that attend to multiple factors, simultaneously. Evidence motivating the hypotheses Overview The rationale begins by linking the CDC’s list of risk factors for COVID-19 death with increased likelihood of suboptimal hydration, expressed in terms of hypertonicity, TBW deficit and/or hypovolemia. Suboptimal hydration is, next, linked with each of the adaptations, listed above, by experimental, clinical, and epidemiological evidence. Metabolic intermediates or pathways that mediate effects of suboptimal hydration are identified. Experiments and clinica...
---
TITLE: Recellularization of decellularized lung scaffolds is enhanced by dynamic suspension culture.
ABSTRACT: are needed to improve repopulation of decellularized lung scaffolds with stromal and functional epithelial cells. We demonstrate that decellularized mouse lungs recellularized in a dynamic low fluid shear suspension bioreactor, termed the rotating wall vessel (RWV), contained more cells with decreased apoptosis, increased proliferation and enhanced levels of total RNA compared to static recellularization conditions. These
METHODS: retain major extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, several ECMs can be less abundant (e.g., collagen I, collagen IV), fragmented (fibronectin) or largely absent (elastin) as compared to the native tissue [ 2 , 5 , 8 ]. Repopulation of decellularized lungs has been reported using a number of different cell types, including transformed cell lines such as A549 lung adenocarcinoma cells, fetal lung cells, endothelial cells, embryonic stem cells (ESC), fibroblasts, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC), primary or immortalized airway and alveolar epithelial cells, and bone marrow or adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) [ 2 – 17 ]. However, apart from use of fetal lung homogenates in combination with A549 and vascular endothelial cells, only partial recellularization of alveoli, airways ...
RESULTS: observed with two relevant mouse cell types: bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal (stem) cells (MSCs) and alveolar type II cells (C10). In addition, MSCs cultured in decellularized lungs under static but not bioreactor conditions formed multilayered aggregates. Gene expression and immunohistochemical analyses suggested differentiation of MSCs into collagen I-producing fibroblast-like cells in the bioreactor, indicating enhanced potential for remodeling of the decellularized scaffold matrix. In
---
TITLE: Three-dimensional organotypic co-culture model of intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages to study Salmonella enterica colonization patterns.
ABSTRACT: dimensional models of human intestinal epithelium mimic the differentiated form and function of parental tissues often not exhibited by two-dimensional monolayers and respond to Salmonella in key ways that reflect in vivo infections. To further enhance the physiological relevance of three-dimensional models to more closely approximate in vivo intestinal microenvironments encountered by Salmonella , we developed and validated a novel three-dimensional co-culture infection model of colonic epithelial cells and macrophages using the NASA Rotating Wall Vessel bioreactor. First, U937 cells were activated upon collagen-coated scaffolds. HT-29 epithelial cells were then added and the three-dimensional model was cultured in the bioreactor until optimal differentiation was reached, as assessed by immunohistochemical profiling and bead uptake assays. The new co-culture model exhibited in vivo-like structural and phenotypic characteristics, including three-dimensional architecture, apical-basolat...
METHODS: strains and growth conditions Salmonella Typhimurium SL1344 and D23580 , S . Typhi Ty2, and E. coli HB101 were used in this study. Bacterial cultures were initiated under aerobic conditions in Lennox broth (LB) overnight with aeration (180 rpm) at 37 °C. Overnight cultures were diluted 1:200 into fresh LB. For microaerobic studies, LB media was pre-flushed with a mixed gas comprised of 2% O 2 , 6% CO 2 , and 92% N 2 and inoculations took place within a Coy chamber which was maintained using the same gas mixture. Oxygen levels in the chamber were monitored by an O 2 sensor and remained between 2.1–2.4% for the duration of the culture. Both aerobic and microaerobic cultures were grown at 37 °C and 180 rpm to late log phase, and immediately thereafter used for infection assays. To confirm bac...
RESULTS: the power of incorporating a series of related three-dimensional models within a study to identify microenvironmental factors important for regulating infection. Modeling intestinal infection with NASA biotechnology: A new 3-D intestinal co-culture model with macrophages to study enteric infection Using spaceflight analog bioreactor technology, Cheryl Nickerson at Arizona State University and collaborators developed and validated a new three-dimensional (3-D) intestinal co-culture model containing multiple differentiated epithelial cell types and phagocytic macrophages with antibacterial function to study infection by multiple pathovars of Salmonella. This study is the first to show that these pathovars (known to possess different host adaptations, antibiotic resistance profiles and diseas...
---
TITLE: Modeling Host-Pathogen Interactions in the Context of the Microenvironment: 3-D Cell Culture Comes of Age.
ABSTRACT: and organs provide the structural and biochemical landscapes upon which microbial pathogens and commensals function to regulate health and disease. While flat two-dimensional (2-D) monolayers composed of a single cell type have provided important insight into understanding host-pathogen interactions and infectious disease mechanisms, these reductionist models lack many essential features present in the native host microenvironment that are known to regulate infection, including three-dimensional (3-D) architecture, multicellular complexity, commensal microbiota, gas exchange and nutrient gradients, and physiologically relevant biomechanical forces (e.g., fluid shear, stretch, compression). A major challenge in tissue engineering for infectious disease research is recreating this dynamic 3-D microenvironment (biological, chemical, and physical/mechanical) to more accurately model the initiation and progression of host-pathogen interactions in the laboratory. Here we review selected 3-D ...
METHODS: 161–172. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2015.01.023. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 25. Hagios C, Lochter A, Bissell MJ. 1998. Tissue architecture: the ultimate regulator of epithelial function? Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 353:857–870. doi: 10.1098/rstb.1998.0250. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 26. Doyle AD, Yamada KM. 2016. Mechanosensing via cell-matrix adhesions in 3D microenvironments. Exp Cell Res 343:60–66. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2015.10.033. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 27. Ingber DE. 2003. Tensegrity I. Cell structure and hierarchical systems biology. J Cell Sci 116:1157–1173. doi: 10.1242/jcs.00359. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 28. Ingber DE. 2003. Mechanobiology and diseases of mechan...
RESULTS: different cellular outcomes (e.g., cell proliferation, apoptosis, antimicrobial peptide production, autophagy, and cytokine secretion). Cytokine production leads to recruitment of innate and adaptive immune effectors to the infection site, representing a bridge between these two arms of immunity ( 65 , 101 ). Mucins are complex mixtures of high-molecular-weight, glycosylated macromolecules that bind and remove pathogens and their products ( 7 , 101 ). Enteric pathogens sense and respond to cues within mucus and overcome this barrier to reach underlying epithelium ( 7 ). Normal intestinal mucus consists of two layers: an outer layer colonized by microbes and a sterile inner layer ( 102 – 104 ). The composition and thickness of these mucin layers vary throughout intestinal regions to accommo...
---
TITLE: Evaluating the effect of spaceflight on the host‚Äìpathogen interaction between human intestinal epithelial cells and Salmonella Typhimurium
ABSTRACT: uniquely alters the physiology of both human cells and microbial pathogens, stimulating cellular and molecular changes directly relevant to infectious disease. However, the influence of this environment on host–pathogen interactions remains poorly understood. Here we report our
METHODS: for additional detail). Bioreactors, bacteria, and fixative bags were integrated into the CCM hardware and launched aboard Space Shuttle Discovery mission STS-131. Crew members activated the CCM once on orbit. At mission elapsed day 11, cultures were infected with S . Typhimurium for 6 h and fixed for postflight analysis. Launch and astronaut images: NASA [STS-131-S-036 (image is slightly cropped), S131E007206, and S131E007188]. c Spaceflight-induced transcriptional responses of HT-29 cells relative to ground controls. Left panel: volcano plot depicting differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between flight and ground control cultures (flight/ground). Red: significantly upregulated genes according to a log 2 fold change in expression of at least ± 1 and FDR < 0.05. Blue: significantly downre...
RESULTS: the STL-IMMUNE study flown aboard Space Shuttle mission STS-131, which investigated multi-omic responses (transcriptomic, proteomic) of human intestinal epithelial cells to infection with Salmonella Typhimurium when both host and pathogen were simultaneously exposed to spaceflight. To our knowledge, this was the first in-flight infection and dual RNA-seq analysis using human cells. Subject terms: Microbiology Humans will travel to space more frequently and for longer duration as the rapidly growing spaceflight industry enables more routine access for both professional astronauts and the public. Spaceflight can adversely affect multiple aspects of human physiology, including immune and gastrointestinal function 1 – 4 . While pre-flight screening and quarantine procedures have reduced infect...
---
TITLE: Rapid phenotypic response of LSMMG-'primed' Candida albicans.
ABSTRACT: albicans is a commensal yeast that is a common component of the gastrointestinal (GI) microbiome of humans. C. albicans has been shown to bloom in the GI tract of individuals with alcohol use disorder (AUD) and can promote and increase the severity of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). However, the effects of C. albicans blooms on the host in the context of AUD or AUD-related phenotypes, such as ethanol preference, have been unstudied. In this work, we report a reduction in ethanol consumption and preference in mice colonized with C. albicans . C. albicans -colonized mice exhibited elevated levels of serum PGE 2 and reduced ethanol preference was reversed by injection with antagonists of PGE 2 receptors. Further, injection of mice with a PGE 2 derivative decreased their ethanol preference. These
METHODS: consumption and ethanol preference showed reductions on both days of the protocol in C. albicans -colonized mice compared to mock-colonized mice (mock) ( Figures 1A , B ). C. albicans -colonized mice consumed slightly less total liquid than mock on day 1 and the same amount of liquid on day 2. Both groups drank less total liquid than mice only given access to water (H2O-only) ( Figure 1C ). Colony forming units/gram of fecal pellets (FP) or cecum contents (CC) demonstrated the presence of C. albicans in the GI tract of inoculated mice throughout the experiment ( Figure 1D ). From these results, we concluded that C. albicans colonization reduced ethanol consumption in female mice. Figure 1: C. albicans-colonized mice consume significantly less ethanol and have lower ethanol preference than ...
RESULTS: that PGE 2 acting on its receptors EP1 and EP2 drives reduced ethanol preference in C. albicans -colonized mice. We also showed altered transcription of dopamine receptors in the dorsal striatum of C. albicans -colonized mice and more rapid acquisition of ethanol conditioned taste aversion, suggesting alterations to reinforcement or aversion learning. Finally, C. albicans -colonized mice were more susceptible to ethanol-induced motor coordination impairment showing significant alterations to the behavioral effects of ethanol. This study identifies a member of the fungal microbiome that alters ethanol preference and demonstrates a role for PGE 2 signaling in these phenotypes. Introduction Candida albicans is a commensal fungus that is found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract of roughly 65% ...
---
TITLE: Growth and antifungal resistance of the pathogenic yeast, Candida albicans, in the microgravity environment of the International Space Station: An aggregate of multiple flight experiences.
ABSTRACT: report was designed to compare spaceflight-induced cellular and physiological adaptations of Candida albicans cultured in microgravity on the International Space Station across several payloads. C. albicans is a common opportunistic fungal pathogen responsible for a variety of superficial infections as well as systemic and more severe infections in humans. Cumulatively, the propensity of this organism to be widespread through the population, the ability to produce disease in immunocompromised individuals, and the tendency to respond to environmental stress with characteristics associated with increased virulence, require a better understanding of the yeast response to microgravity for spaceflight crew safety. As such, the responses of this yeast cultivated during several missions using two in-flight culture bioreactors were analyzed and compared herein. In general, C. albicans had a slightly shorter generation time and higher growth propensity in microgravity as compared to terrestrial...
METHODS: 1. Yeast Strain and Growth Conditions C. albicans (SC5314, American Type Culture Collection) was maintained as a frozen stock at −80 °C. Routinely, and specifically the week before flight preparations, streak plates were initiated from frozen stock. As needed for experiment preparation, isolated colonies were used to initiate overnight planktonic cultures. For ground-based studies and flight sample preparation, all cells were cultured in YPD (1% yeast extract, 2% peptone, 2% glucose, Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) at 30 °C with shaking at 225 rpm for up to 18 h for planktonic cultures and inverted for 3 days for plated colonies, unless otherwise noted in specific methods. 2.2. Missions: Common Procedures Pre-flight sample preparation was done at Kennedy Space Center in the Spac...
RESULTS: compared to samples without drug, as well as to the corresponding terrestrial controls. Alternatively, yeast cells were cultured in microgravity without treatment and returned live. Viable cells were recovered from the de-integrated hardware, counted, diluted to 1 × 10 5 cells/mL, and added (100 μL) in triplicate to wells of a 96-well plate pre-loaded with 100 μL control medium (2× YPD) or antifungal agent (2×) in YPD. The plates were incubated at 30 °C for 24 h and 72 h and cell growth was quantified by optical density at 595 nm (iMark, BioRad, Hercules, CA, USA). The drug concentrations chosen to assess AmB and CAS sensitivity were identified in the literature and refined empirically based on dose sensitivity assays performed with the Candida isolate used in the laboratory (unpublished d...
---
TITLE: Growth performance and root transcriptome remodeling of Arabidopsis in response to Mars-like levels of magnesium sulfate.
ABSTRACT: Martian regolith (unconsolidated surface material) is a potential medium for plant growth in bioregenerative life support systems during manned missions on Mars. However, hydrated magnesium sulfate mineral levels in the regolith of Mars can reach as high as 10 wt%, and would be expected to be highly inhibitory to plant growth.
METHODS: tools: RF. Wrote the paper: AMV ALP RF. Doctoral thesis co-advisor of first author (Visscher): ALP RF. Contributed to experimental design and helped direct research: ALP RF. Made significant writing contributions to manuscript: ALP RF. Visscher's doctoral thesis committee member: MK CG ACS. Helped with the design of the experiments, data analysis and editing of manuscript: MK CG ACS. ¤ Current address: Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom Roles Diane Bassham : Editor Received 2010 Jan 24; Accepted 2010 Jul 12; Collection date 2010. Visscher et al. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original auth...
RESULTS: ion transporters AtMRS2-10 and AtSULTR1;2, which are plasma membrane localized in peripheral root cells, is not an effective way to confer tolerance to magnesium sulfate soils. Arabidopsis mrs2-10 and sel1-10 knockout lines do not mitigate the growth inhibiting impacts of high MgSO 4 ·7H 2 O concentrations observed with wildtype plants. A global approach was used to identify novel genes with potential to enhance tolerance to high MgSO 4 ·7H 2 O (magnesium sulfate) stress. The early Arabidopsis root transcriptome response to elevated concentrations of magnesium sulfate was characterized in Col-0, and also between Col-0 and the mutant line cax1-1 , which was confirmed to be relatively tolerant of high levels of MgSO 4 ·7H 2 O in soil solution. Differentially expressed genes in Col-0 treated ...
---
TITLE: NASA GeneLab RNA-Seq Consensus Pipeline: Standardized Processing of Short-Read RNA-Seq Data
ABSTRACT: the development of transcriptomic technologies, we are able to quantify precise changes in gene expression profiles from astronauts and other organisms exposed to spaceflight. Members of NASA GeneLab and GeneLab-associated analysis working groups (AWGs) have developed a consensus pipeline for analyzing short-read RNA-sequencing data from spaceflight-associated experiments. The pipeline includes quality control, read trimming, mapping, and gene quantification steps, culminating in the detection of differentially expressed genes. This data analysis pipeline and the
METHODS: as Rlog and VST when normalizing the spike-in RNAs along with all other genes. Second, most normalization methods of RNA-seq data assume that most genes are not differentially expressed toward one direction. Comparing spike-in measurements between libraries will help us to estimate the validity of this assumption. A high number of biological replicates can increase certainty in the differentially expressed genes determined by the RCP. However, conducting experiments in spaceflight often limits the number of biological replicates that a researcher can include. Therefore, it is important to note that at least three biological replicates are required for the pipeline, specifically for DESeq2, to perform its statistical methods. However, at least six replicates are suggested in order to minimi...
RESULTS: its execution using data submitted to GeneLab are now all publicly available through the GeneLab database. We present here the full details and rationale for the construction of this pipeline in order to promote transparency, reproducibility, and reusability of pipeline data; to provide a template for data processing of future spaceflight-relevant datasets; and to encourage cross-analysis of data from other databases with the data available in GeneLab. Subject areas: Omics, Space Sciences Graphical
---
TITLE: Challenges and considerations for single-cell and spatially resolved transcriptomics sample collection during spaceflight.
ABSTRACT: cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and spatially resolved transcriptomics (SRT) have experienced rapid development in recent years. The
METHODS: Oct 31;2(11):100325. doi: 10.1016/j.crmeth.2022.100325 Challenges and considerations for single-cell and spatially resolved transcriptomics sample collection during spaceflight Eliah G Overbey Eliah G Overbey 1 Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA 2 Institute for Computational Biomedicine, New York, NY, USA Find articles by Eliah G Overbey 1, 2, 18 , Saswati Das Saswati Das 3 Department of Biochemistry, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences & Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi, India Find articles by Saswati Das 3, 18 , Henry Cope Henry Cope 4 School of Medicine, University of Nottingham, Derby DE22 3DT, UK Find articles by Henry Cope 4 , Pedro Madrigal Pedro Madrigal 5 European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute, EMBL-EBI, Wellcome Gen...
RESULTS: spaceflight-based scRNA-seq and SRT investigations are likely to improve our understanding of life in space and our comprehension of gene expression in various cell systems and tissue dynamics. However, compared to their Earth-based counterparts, gene expression experiments conducted in spaceflight have not experienced the same pace of development. Out of the hundreds of spaceflight gene expression datasets available, only a few used scRNA-seq and SRT. In this perspective piece, we explore the growing importance of scRNA-seq and SRT in space biology and discuss the challenges and considerations relevant to robust experimental design to enable growth of these methods in the field. Keywords: spaceflight, RNA-sequencing, transcriptomics, single-cell, spatially resolved transcriptomics, spatia...
---
TITLE: Direct RNA sequencing of astronaut blood reveals spaceflight-associated m6A increases and hematopoietic transcriptional responses
ABSTRACT: advent of civilian spaceflight challenges scientists to precisely describe the effects of spaceflight on human physiology, particularly at the molecular and cellular level. Newer, nanopore-based sequencing technologies can quantitatively map changes in chemical structure and expression at single molecule resolution across entire isoforms. We perform long-read, direct RNA nanopore sequencing, as well as Ultima high-coverage RNA-sequencing, of whole blood sampled longitudinally from four SpaceX Inspiration4 astronauts at seven timepoints, spanning pre-flight, day of return, and post-flight recovery. We report key genetic pathways, including changes in erythrocyte regulation, stress induction, and immune changes affected by spaceflight. We also present the first m 6 A methylation profiles for a human space mission, suggesting a significant spike in m 6 A levels immediately post-flight. These data and
METHODS: foundational functional genomics resources for human spaceflight, as part of a roadmap for future bioinformatics data analysis techniques for LRS data. These current results are in line with the mission of NASA OSDR, which aims to standardize procedures for future spaceflight missions and open science, enabling comprehensive comparisons between these astronaut and model cohorts 20 . We also implemented methodologies which allow for examination of differences in expression, splicing behavior, and methylation (m 6 A) at the same time. As such, we can observe molecular changes underlying blood transcriptome dynamics across an astronaut’s journey to space and back, which show thousands of changes across several hundred specific genes, some of which recapitulate known stress markers of the vasc...
RESULTS: the first longitudinal long-read RNA profiles and RNA modification maps for each gene for astronauts, improving our understanding of the human transcriptome’s dynamic response to spaceflight. Subject terms: RNA sequencing, Gene expression Here the authors explore the role of chemical modifications within RNA molecules in spaceflight response, observing increased m 6 A mRNA modifications immediately post-spaceflight in gene markers associated with stress response. Introduction Both short- and long-term missions into space are correlated with a variety of acute physiological effects, affecting diverse organ and cellular systems 1 – 3 . Astronauts generally experience performance impairment in a wide variety of activities post-spaceflight, requiring reconditioning routines to regain preflight...
---
TITLE: Collection of biospecimens from the inspiration4 mission establishes the standards for the space omics and medical atlas (SOMA)
ABSTRACT: SpaceX Inspiration4 mission provided a unique opportunity to study the impact of spaceflight on the human body. Biospecimen samples were collected from four crew members longitudinally before (Launch: L-92, L-44, L-3 days), during (Flight Day: FD1, FD2, FD3), and after (Return: R + 1, R + 45, R + 82, R + 194 days) spaceflight, spanning a total of 289 days across 2021-2022. The collection process included venous whole blood, capillary dried blood spot cards, saliva, urine, stool, body swabs, capsule swabs, SpaceX Dragon capsule HEPA filter, and skin biopsies. Venous whole blood was further processed to obtain aliquots of serum, plasma, extracellular vesicles and particles, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In total, 2,911 sample aliquots were shipped to our central lab at Weill Cornell Medicine for downstream assays and biobanking. This paper provides an overview of the extensive biospecimen collection and highlights their processing procedures and long-term biobanking techniques,...
METHODS: the SpaceX Inspiration4 mission, including venous blood, capillary blood, saliva, urine, stool, skin biopsy, body swab, and environmental swab samples. Introduction Our human space exploration efforts are at a unique transition point in history, with more crewed launches and human presence in space than ever before 1 . We can attribute this to the commercial spaceflight sector entering an industrial renaissance, with multiple companies forming collaborative and competitive networks to send commercial astronauts into space. The recent advancements in human space exploration offer a significant chance to gather more biological research samples and enhance our comprehension of spaceflight’s effects on human health. This is vital, as our knowledge of the biological reactions to the unique envi...
RESULTS: spaceflight studies. Additionally, we showcase metrics related to sample collection outputs, references of past astronaut sample collections in scientific publications, and suggestions to refine sample collection for upcoming missions. In its inaugural use case, these samples were collected from the I4 astronaut cohort and are currently in use for several other missions (Polaris Dawn, Axiom-2), which will enable continued utilization for future crewed space missions.
---
TITLE: Microfluidics-enabled method to identify modes of Caenorhabditis elegans paralysis in four anthelmintics.
ABSTRACT: discovery of new drugs is often propelled by the increasing resistance of parasites to existing drugs and the availability of better technology platforms. The area of microfluidics has provided devices for faster screening of compounds, controlled sampling/sorting of whole animals, and automated behavioral pattern recognition. In most microfluidic devices, drug effects on small animals (e.g., Caenorhabditis elegans ) are quantified by an end-point, dose response curve representing a single parameter (such as worm velocity or stroke frequency). Here, we present a multi-parameter extraction method to characterize modes of paralysis in C. elegans over an extended time period. A microfluidic device with real-time imaging is used to expose C. elegans to four anthelmintic drugs (i.e., pyrantel, levamisole, tribendimidine, and methyridine). We quantified worm behavior with parameters such as curls per second, types of paralyzation, mode frequency, and number/duration of active/immobilization ...
METHODS: loading, immobilizing, sorting, and phenotyping worm populations. 28 , 29 While these technological advancements are commendable, it is reasonable to state that almost all microfluidic-enabled drug studies on C. elegans portray the drug effect using a single parameter measured at a finite time (e.g., velocity, stroke frequency). 30 , 31 Macroscopic, inhibition migration assays also count the percentage of worms surviving a chemical media within a finite time and plot the data as a dose response curve. 7 , 9 , 11 , 17 Are there other ways to characterize drug effects in these animals besides using a single parameter measured at end-points of the experiments? If different drugs are chosen at the same potency level, will they all exhibit a similar response on worm populations through the expo...
RESULTS: the four drugs. Finally, with an attempt to show the usefulness of this characterization technique for future drug screening, we justify our
---
TITLE: Multiparameter behavioral analyses provide insights to mechanisms of cyanide resistance in Caenorhabditis elegans.
ABSTRACT: toxicants influence development, behavior, and ultimately survival. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has proven to be an exceptionally powerful model for toxicological studies. Here, we develop novel technologies to describe the effects of cyanide toxicity with high spatiotemporal resolution. Importantly, we use these
METHODS: examine the genetic underpinnings of cyanide resistance. Caenorhabditis elegans that lack the EGL-9 oxygen sensing enzyme have been shown to be resistant to hydrogen cyanide (HCN) gas produced by the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. We demonstrate that the cyanide resistance exhibited by egl-9 mutants is completely dependent on the HIF-1 hypoxia-inducible factor and is mediated by the cysl-2 cysteine synthase, which likely functions in metabolic pathways that inactivate cyanide. Further, the expression of cysl-2 correlates with the degree of cyanide resistance exhibited in each genetic background. We find that each mutant exhibits similar relative resistance to HCN gas on plates or to aqueous potassium cyanide in microfluidic chambers. The design of the microfluidic devices, in combin...
RESULTS: of HIF-1 Confers Resistance to HCN Gas Prior studies have shown that egl-9 -deficient worms could survive concentrations of HCN gas that killed wild-type worms ( Gallagher and Manoil, 2001 ). In the experiments shown in Figure 1 , we monitored the effects of HCN gas on worm motility at 30-min time points for a total of 150min and then examined the abilities of the animals to recover from this. As shown in Figure 1b , wild-type animals were rapidly immobilized in the presence of HCN gas. In contrast, the egl-9 -deficient animals ( Fig. 1c ) were motile even after 2.5h and foraged actively on the plates despite exposure to the toxicant. We hypothesized that the HCN resistance exhibited by egl-9 -deficient mutants was due, in whole or in part, to overactivation of HIF-1. To test this, we comp...
---
TITLE: Changes in the distribution and function of leukocytes after whole-body iron ion irradiation.
ABSTRACT: energy particle radiation could have a considerable impact on health during space missions. This study evaluated C57BL/6 mice on Day 40 after total-body 56 Fe 26+ irradiation at 0, 1, 2 and 3 gray (Gy). Radiation consistently increased thymus mass (one-way ANOVA: P < 0.005); spleen, liver and lung masses were similar among all groups. In the blood, there was no radiation effect on the white blood cell (WBC) count or major leukocyte types. However, the red blood cell count, hemoglobin, hematocrit and the CD8+ T cytotoxic (Tc) cell count and percentage all decreased, while both the CD4:CD8 (Th:Tc) cell ratio and spontaneous blastogenesis increased, in one or more irradiated groups compared with unirradiated controls ( P < 0.05 vs 0 Gy). In contrast, splenic WBC, lymphocyte, B cell and T helper (Th) counts, %B cells and the CD4:CD8 ratio were all significantly elevated, while Tc percentages decreased, in one or more of the irradiated groups compared with controls ( P < 0.05 vs 0 Gy). Alth...
METHODS: and total-body irradiation The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees of Loma Linda University (LLU) and Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL) approved this study. The animals were in the BNL-7 run of the NASA radiation health experimental series. C57BL/6 J female mice ( n = 60) were purchased from Charles River Breeding Laboratories, Wilmington, MA, USA, and shipped directly to BNL at 8–9 weeks of age. After an acclimatization period of ~1 week, non-anesthetized animals were placed individually into well-aerated polystyrene boxes (volume 3 × 3 × 6 cm) and were exposed to iron ions ( 56 Fe, Z = 26, 1 GeV/nucleon, LET = 148.2 keV/μm track average) using the Alternating Gradient Synchrotron (AGS). Additional beam characteristics can be found elsewhere [ 37 , 38 ]. The radiation was deli...
RESULTS: those studies, we found drastic reductions in virtually all characterized immune parameters, with associated changes in ex vivo function, four days post-irradiation [ 33 – 36 ]. While most of the population recovered by Day 110–113 [ 30 , 36 ], there were still some strain-dependent changes in T and B cell populations 30 days post-exposure [ 34 ]. Those findings are extensively compared with the present data in the
---
TITLE: Is spaceflight-induced immune dysfunction linked to systemic changes in metabolism?
ABSTRACT: Space Shuttle Atlantis launched on its final mission (STS-135) on July 8, 2011. After just under 13 days, the shuttle landed safely at Kennedy Space Center (KSC) for the last time. Female C57BL/6J mice flew as part of the Commercial Biomedical Testing Module-3 (CBTM-3) payload. Ground controls were maintained at the KSC facility. Subsets of these mice were made available to investigators as part of NASA’s Bio-specimen Sharing Program (BSP). Our group characterized cell phenotype distributions and phagocytic function in the spleen, catecholamine and corticosterone levels in the adrenal glands, and transcriptomics/metabolomics in the liver. Despite decreases in most splenic leukocyte subsets, there were increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS)-related activity. Although there were increases noted in corticosterone levels in both the adrenals and liver, there were no significant changes in catecholamine levels. Furthermore, functional analysis of gene expression and metabolomic profiles...
METHODS: in the manuscript apart from those disclosed. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. Conceptualization: MJP XWM DLB KRJ LSS VLF TAB DSG. Data curation: MJP XWM DLB KRJ RPM. Formal analysis: MJP XWM DLB KRJ RPM DSG. Funding acquisition: MJP KRJ DSG. Investigation: MJP XWM DLB KRJ RPM.
RESULTS: are at least three, currently unavoidable components of the spaceflight environment that directly impact immune function. These include changes in the inertial environment (e.g. launch and landing loads, microgravity), low-dose/low-dose-rate radiation (e.g. solar particle events, galactic cosmic rays, and the Van Allen belts), and physiological/psychological stress (e.g. unloading, work-related stress). Ground-based studies have shown that each of these environmental factors alone can have an impact on immune function. Previously, we and others have shown that the spaceflight environment can have a dramatic influence on immunity. Virtually all immune populations are reduced after spaceflight [ 2 , 4 ]. Studies in both animal models and humans have shown that the spaceflight environment can...
---
TITLE: Vive la radior√©sistance!: Converging research in radiobiology and biogerontology to enhance human radioresistance for deep space exploration and colonization.
ABSTRACT: many efforts have been made to pave the way toward human space colonization, little consideration has been given to the
METHODS: protecting spacefarers against harsh cosmic and local radioactive environments and the high costs associated with protection from the deleterious physiological effects of exposure to high-Linear energy transfer (high-LET) radiation. Herein, we lay the foundations of a roadmap toward enhancing human radioresistance for the purposes of deep space colonization and exploration. We outline future research directions toward the goal of enhancing human radioresistance, including upregulation of endogenous repair and radioprotective mechanisms, possible leeways into gene therapy in order to enhance radioresistance via the translation of exogenous and engineered DNA repair and radioprotective mechanisms, the substitution of organic molecules with fortified isoforms, and methods of slowing metabolic...
RESULTS: these studies included data on the hyperresistance to various damaging factors including lethal doses of ionizing radiation, long-term lethal overloads and hypobaric hypoxia in mice [ 16 ]. SPACE RADIATION ENVIRONMENT Beyond the reach of the Earth's magnetosphere, cosmic rays refer to a heterogenous pool of ionizing radiation with a diverse range of energies and charges. They can be subdivided into two main types, including galactic cosmic rays (GCRs) consisting of a constant flux of high energy particles originating in cataclysmic astronomical events outside the solar system, and solar energetic particles produced by the Sun ([ 17 ]). GCRs mainly consist of approximately 85% high-energy protons, 12% alpha-particles, and 2% electrons. Importantly, there is a small (1%), but biologically re...
---
TITLE: Sex differences in muscle health in simulated micro- and partial-gravity environments in rats.
ABSTRACT: muscle size and strength are important for overall health for astronauts. However, how male and female muscle may respond differently to micro- and partial-gravity environments is not fully understood. The purpose of this study was to determine how biological sex and sex steroid hormones influence the progression of muscle atrophy after long term exposure to micro and partial gravity environments in male and female rats. Male and female Fisher rats ( n ​= ​120) underwent either castration/ovariectomy or sham surgeries. After two weeks recovery, animals were divided into microgravity (0g), partial-gravity (40% of weight bearing, 0.4g), or full weight bearing (1g) interventions for 28 days. Measurements of muscle size and strength were evaluated prior to and after interventions. At 0g, females lost more dorsiflexion strength, plantar flexion strength, and other metrics of muscle size compared to males; castration/ovariectomy did not influence these differences. Additionally, at 0.4g, fem...
METHODS: 1. Animal experiments Overall design: All experimental procedures were approved by the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC, protocol number: 081–2020). The overall protocol (including pictorial description) for this study has been previously reported. 15 Briefly, 120 male (M) and female (F) Fisher rats were obtained from Charles River Laboratories (Wilmington, MA, Stock number: 002). At 12 weeks of age, the rats underwent either castration/ovariectomy (CAST/OVX) or sham (SHAM) surgeries. Animals were given two weeks to recover; thereafter, they were divided into either simulated micro-gravity (0g), simulated partial-gravity (40% of bodyweight, Martian gravity, 0.4g) or Earth gravity control (1g) conditions. Simulated 0g was induced with a...
RESULTS: 1. Females lost more bodyweight compared to males, but had similar loss in rear paw grip strength during 28-day interventions F-SHAM-0g had similar bodyweight losses compared to M-SHAM-0g ( Fig. 1 A). However, in rats post-gonadectomy, F-OVX-0g had greater bodyweight loss compared to M-CAST-0g (+14.9% v. −6.8% respectively, Fig. 1 B). After exposure to simulated partial gravity, females lost more bodyweight compared to males, in both SHAM (−9.4% v. −0.90%, Fig. 1 C) and OVX/CAST conditions (−11.4% v. −3.9%, Fig. 1 D). Fig. 1. Open in a new tab Bodyweight and grip strength changes in males and females undergoing exposure to micro-gravity (0g) or 40% partial-gravity (0.4g) interventions in SHAM and CAST/OVX conditions. Bodyweight changes in A) SHAM males and females exposed to 0g. B) CAST ma...
---
TITLE: REGULATOR OF BULB BIOGENESIS1 (RBB1) Is Involved in Vacuole Bulb Formation in Arabidopsis.
ABSTRACT: are dynamic compartments with constant fluctuations and transient structures such as trans-vacuolar strands and bulbs. Bulbs are highly dynamic spherical structures inside vacuoles that are formed by multiple layers of membranes and are continuous with the main tonoplast. We recently carried out a screen for mutants with abnormal trafficking to the vacuole or aberrant vacuole morphology. We characterized regulator of bulb biogenesis1-1 ( rbb1-1 ), a mutant in Arabidopsis that contains increased numbers of bulbs when compared to the parental control. rbb1-1 mutants also contain fewer transvacuolar strands than the parental control, and we propose the hypothesis that the formation of transvacuolar strands and bulbs is functionally related. We propose that the bulbs may function transiently to accommodate membranes and proteins when transvacuolar strands fail to elongate. We show that RBB1 corresponds to a very large protein of unknown function that is specific to plants, is present in th...
METHODS: tools: JMA. Wrote the paper: SH MRP. ✉ * E-mail: mrojasp@ncsu.edu Roles Diane Bassham : Academic Editor Received 2015 Jan 8; Accepted 2015 Mar 24; Collection date 2015. © 2015 Han et al This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are properly credited. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC4411111 PMID: 25915922
RESULTS: their dissasembly [ 11 ]. Similarly, microinjection of antiserum against two actin-binding proteins of the villin group disrupted the TVS in root hair cells of H . dubia [ 7 , 12 ]. The current model for TVS formation is that the actomyosin system regulates TVS formation and dynamics [ 13 , 14 ]. Bulbs are spherical structures of diameters between 1 and 10 μm that are highly dynamic in the lumen of the vacuole. These membrane structures are associated with the outer tonoplast membrane or transvacuolar strands and contain cytoplasmic structures, even organelles, between the folded membranes [ 5 , 15 ]. Imaging by electron microscopy has indicated that bulbs are formed by multiple layers of tonoplast membranes, which explains the increased intensity of bulbs in fluorescently labeled tonoplas...
---
TITLE: Phosphoinositides control the localization of HOPS subunit VPS41, which together with VPS33 mediates vacuole fusion in plants.
ABSTRACT: vacuole is an essential organelle in plant cells, and its dynamic nature is important for plant growth and development. Homotypic membrane fusion is required for vacuole biogenesis, pollen germination, stomata opening, and gravity perception. Known components of the vacuole fusion machinery in eukaryotes include SNARE proteins, Rab GTPases, phosphoinositides, and the homotypic fusion and vacuolar protein sorting (HOPS) tethering complex. HOPS function is not well characterized in plants, but roles in embryogenesis and pollen tube elongation have been reported. Here, we show that Arabidopsis HOPS subunits VPS33 and VPS41 accumulate in late endosomes and that VPS41, but not VPS33, accumulates in the tonoplast via a wortmannin-sensitive process. VPS41 and VPS33 proteins bind to liposomes, but this binding is inhibited by phosphatidylinosiltol-3-phosphate [PtdIns(3)P] and PtdIns(3,5)P 2 , which implicates a nonconserved mechanism for HOPS recruitment in plants. Inducible knockdown of VPS41...
METHODS: Conditions, and Transformation. Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown as described ( 2 ). The ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used as WT control. The genomic VPS41-GFP fusion ( VPS41p::VPS41-GFP ) was described elsewhere ( 4 ). Organelle markers mRFP-SYP22 ( 18 ), mCherry-RAB5 (mCherry-RabF2a), and mCherry-RAB7 (mCherry-RabG3f) ( 51 ) have been previously described. SALK T-DNA insertion lines, including vps41-1 (SALK_076372), vps41-2 (SALK_035406), vps33-3 (SALK_016684C), vps33-4 (SALK_151719), and vps33-5 (SALK_143407), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) and genotyped by PCR ( SI Appendix , Table S4 ). The zip2 zig-1 mutant was previously characterized ( 56 ). The TILLING lines ( 57 ) vps33-1 (CS92162) and vps33-2 (CS93595) were obtained from ABRC and backc...
RESULTS: both conserved and specific mechanisms for HOPS recruitment and function during vacuole fusion in plants. The plant vacuole is an essential organelle with multiple roles including storage, pH homeostasis, and recycling ( 1 ). Vacuole fusion is required for stomata opening, pollen fertility, and embryo viability ( 2 – 4 ). Two types of vacuoles exist in plant cells. Embryos in developing seeds contain multiple protein storage vacuoles (PSVs), which have a neutral pH and accumulate storage proteins such as the 7S and 11S globulins. Cells in most mature tissues, instead, contain one large lytic vacuole, which is acidic, abundant in lytic proteases, and critical for ion homeostasis and cell turgor ( 5 ). Transition from PSVs to lytic vacuoles occurs during germination ( 6 ) and involves PSV fu...
---
TITLE: Microgravity enhances the phenotype of Arabidopsis zigzag-1 and reduces the Wortmannin-induced vacuole fusion in root cells.
ABSTRACT: spaceflight environment of the International Space Station poses a multitude of stresses on plant growth including reduced gravity. Plants exposed to microgravity and other conditions on the ISS display root skewing, changes in gene expression and protein abundance that may result in changes in cell wall composition, antioxidant accumulation and modification of growth anisotropy. Systematic studies that address the effects of microgravity on cellular organelles are lacking but altered numbers and sizes of vacuoles have been detected in previous flights. The prominent size of plant vacuoles makes them ideal models to study organelle dynamics in space. Here, we used Arabidopsis zigzag-1 ( zig-1 ) as a sensitized genotype to study the effect of microgravity on plant vacuole fusion. Wortmannin was used to induce vacuole fusion in seedlings and a formaldehyde-based fixation protocol was developed to visualize plant vacuole morphology after sample return, using confocal microscopy. Our
METHODS: growth conditions Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia (Col-0) expressing GFP-TIP2;1 was previously described 39 and previously transformed 27 with the HDEL-mCherry construct 40 . The zig-1 mutant was previously described 24 , and the GFP-TIP2;1 marker was introgressed into this genotype by crossing. The HDEL-mCherry marker 40 was separately introduced into zig-1 by Agrobacterium -mediated transformation 27 and the two markers were combined by crossing and selection of plants in the F 2 . Seeds were surface sterilized and sown on 0.5 X Arabidopsis growth medium (AGM, 0.5X Murashige and Skoog medium, 10 g/L Gelrite, 1% (w/v) sucrose) in 6 cm diameter petri dishes. Each petri dish contained 30 seeds. Twenty-two Petri dishes were integrated into PDFUs and stored in 4 BRICs for SVT, EVT and flight. BR...
RESULTS: that microgravity enhances the zig-1 phenotype by reducing hypocotyl growth and vacuole fusion in some cells. This study demonstrates the feasibility of chemical inhibitor treatments for plant cell biology experiments in space. Subject terms: Plant sciences, Cell biology Introduction Growing healthy plants in space is a major goal towards the viability of long-term space missions as plants can provide food for astronauts and benefit mental health. The space environment includes multiple stresses for plant growth including different levels of gravity, radiation, decreased nutrient delivery and water recycling 1 , 2 . The International Space Station provides an ideal experimental setting for the study of plant growth and development under space conditions and many experiments have been condu...
---
TITLE: Hypergravity disruption of homeorhetic adaptations to lactation in rat dams include changes in circadian clocks
ABSTRACT: gravity load induced by spaceflight (microgravity) and centrifugation (hypergravity) is associated with changes in circadian, metabolic, and reproductive systems. Exposure to 2-g hypergravity (HG) during pregnancy and lactation decreased rate of mammary metabolic activity and increased pup mortality. We hypothesize HG disrupted maternal homeorhetic responses to pregnancy and lactation are due to changes in maternal metabolism, hormone concentrations, and maternal behavior related to gravity induced alterations in circadian clocks. Effect of HG exposure on mammary, liver and adipose tissue metabolism, plasma hormones and maternal behavior were analyzed in rat dams from mid-pregnancy (Gestational day [G]11) through early lactation (Postnatal day [P]3); comparisons were made across five time-points: G20, G21, P0 (labor and delivery), P1 and P3. Blood, mammary, liver, and adipose tissue were collected for analyzing plasma hormones, glucose oxidation to CO 2 and incorporation into lipids, o...
METHODS: and treatment conditions All animal procedures were approved by the NASA Ames Research Center IACUC. Sixty-four time-bred female Sprague-Dawley rats ( Rattus norvegicus ; Taconic Farms, Germantown, NY, USA), weighing between 190–280g, were used. Animals were assigned to one of five stages (n = 16 per group) corresponding to different time-points across the periparturient period. These were: G20, G21, P0 (birth), P1 (onset of lactation) and P3 (lactation day 3). During the period G2–G6, the dams were individually housed in maternity cages (47cm ×26cm ×21cm) lined with corncob bedding and maintained under standard colony conditions (12∶12 light/dark cycle [0600∶1800]; 21±1°C at 30–50% humidity). On G7, the dams were housed in custom designed metabolic cages allowing for the clean separation ...
RESULTS: a disruption of homeorhetic mechanisms that normally allow the dam to maintain homeostasis while simultaneously providing for growing fetuses and neonates. In the present study, we measured the effect of exposure to 2-g from mid-gestation (gestational day [G]11 of the rat's 22-day pregnancy) throughout early lactation (until Postnatal day [P]3) on metabolic activity of mammary, liver and adipose tissue as well as circulating hormone and metabolite levels, and maternal behavior in relation to pup survival. We tested whether hypergravity affects homeorhetic responses in the dam thereby affecting lipid metabolism and pup survival. We also examined the hypothesis that alterations to the dam's circadian system induced by changes in gravitational force may limit homeorhetic adaptations needed fo...
---
TITLE: Intrauterine exposure to maternal stress alters Bdnf IV DNA methylation and telomere length in the brain of adult rat offspring.
ABSTRACT: methylation (addition of methyl groups to cytosines) and changes in telomere length (TTAGGG repeats on the ends of chromosomes) are two molecular modifications that result from stress and could contribute to the long-term effects of intrauterine exposure to maternal stress on offspring behavior. Here, we measured methylation of DNA associated with the Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) gene, a gene important in development and plasticity, and telomere length in the brains of adult rat male and female offspring whose mothers were exposed to unpredictable and variable stressors throughout gestation. Males exposed to prenatal stress had greater methylation ( Bdnf IV ) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) compared to non-stressed male controls and stressed females. Further, prenatally-stressed animals had shorter telomeres than controls in the mPFC. Together
METHODS: 1 Subjects Female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and their offspring were used (n=6 control animals per sex, 7 UVPS animals per sex derived from 13 dams, with only one male and one female offspring from each control and UVPS litter). To avoid stress associated with shipping during pregnancy, dams were ordered (Taconic Farms, Germantown, NY) and time-mated in our breeding colony. Pregnancy was determined by daily vaginal lavage with the presence of spermatozoa indicating Gestational day zero (G0). Throughout pregnancy, dams were housed in groups of three in standard maternity cages (47cm × 26cm × 21cm) lined with corncob bedding and maintained under standard colony conditions (12:12 light/dark cycle [0600:1800]; 21 +/− 1° C at 30 – 50% humidity). Rat chow (Purina #5102) and water were available a...
RESULTS: a long-term impact of prenatal stress on brain DNA methylation and telomere biology with relevance for behavioral and health outcomes, and contribute to a growing literature linking stress to intergenerational molecular changes. Keywords: prenatal stress, maternal stress, DNA methylation, telomere length 1. Introduction Perturbations during gestation in the form of malnutrition, infection, or psychosocial stress have devastating consequences on the physical and mental well-being of offspring. For example, individuals exposed to famine during gestation (such as that of the Dutch Famine of 1944) have significant physical health problems including cardiovascular disease and high blood pressure ( Painter et al., 2008 ; Roseboom et al., 2011 ). Gestational famine exposure also produces long-las...
---
TITLE: Influence of gonadectomy on muscle health in micro- and partial-gravity environments in rats.
ABSTRACT: muscle size and strength are important for overall health for astronauts. However, how male and female muscle may respond differently to micro- and partial-gravity environments is not fully understood. The purpose of this study was to determine how biological sex and sex steroid hormones influence the progression of muscle atrophy after long term exposure to micro and partial gravity environments in male and female rats. Male and female Fisher rats ( n ​= ​120) underwent either castration/ovariectomy or sham surgeries. After two weeks recovery, animals were divided into microgravity (0g), partial-gravity (40% of weight bearing, 0.4g), or full weight bearing (1g) interventions for 28 days. Measurements of muscle size and strength were evaluated prior to and after interventions. At 0g, females lost more dorsiflexion strength, plantar flexion strength, and other metrics of muscle size compared to males; castration/ovariectomy did not influence these differences. Additionally, at 0.4g, fem...
METHODS: 1. Animal experiments Overall design: All experimental procedures were approved by the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC, protocol number: 081–2020). The overall protocol (including pictorial description) for this study has been previously reported. 15 Briefly, 120 male (M) and female (F) Fisher rats were obtained from Charles River Laboratories (Wilmington, MA, Stock number: 002). At 12 weeks of age, the rats underwent either castration/ovariectomy (CAST/OVX) or sham (SHAM) surgeries. Animals were given two weeks to recover; thereafter, they were divided into either simulated micro-gravity (0g), simulated partial-gravity (40% of bodyweight, Martian gravity, 0.4g) or Earth gravity control (1g) conditions. Simulated 0g was induced with a...
RESULTS: 1. Females lost more bodyweight compared to males, but had similar loss in rear paw grip strength during 28-day interventions F-SHAM-0g had similar bodyweight losses compared to M-SHAM-0g ( Fig. 1 A). However, in rats post-gonadectomy, F-OVX-0g had greater bodyweight loss compared to M-CAST-0g (+14.9% v. −6.8% respectively, Fig. 1 B). After exposure to simulated partial gravity, females lost more bodyweight compared to males, in both SHAM (−9.4% v. −0.90%, Fig. 1 C) and OVX/CAST conditions (−11.4% v. −3.9%, Fig. 1 D). Fig. 1. Open in a new tab Bodyweight and grip strength changes in males and females undergoing exposure to micro-gravity (0g) or 40% partial-gravity (0.4g) interventions in SHAM and CAST/OVX conditions. Bodyweight changes in A) SHAM males and females exposed to 0g. B) CAST ma...
---
TITLE: Brassinazole resistant 1 (BZR1)-dependent brassinosteroid signalling pathway leads to ectopic activation of quiescent cell division and suppresses columella stem cell differentiation
ABSTRACT: publications have shown that BRI1 EMS suppressor 1 (BES1), a positive regulator of the brassinosteroid (BR) signalling pathway, enhances cell divisions in the quiescent centre (QC) and stimulates columella stem cell differentiation. Here, it is demonstrated that BZR1, a BES1 homologue, also promotes cell divisions in the QC, but it suppresses columella stem cell differentiation, opposite to the action of BES1. In addition, BR and its BZR1-mediated signalling pathway are shown to alter the expression/subcellular distribution of pin-formed (PINs), which may result in changes in auxin movement. BR promotes intense nuclear accumulation of BZR1 in the root tip area, and the binding of BZR1 to the promoters of several root development-regulating genes, modulating their expression in the root stem cell niche area. These BZR1-mediated signalling cascades may account for both the ectopic activation of QC cell divisions as well as the suppression of the columella stem cell differentiation. They ...
METHODS: materials and growth conditions Wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia-0, Col-0), its ethylene biosynthesis mutant eto1-11 and BR-related mutants ( det2 , bri1-116 , bzr1-D , and bri1-116 / bzr1-D ), and wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana (Enkheim-2, En-2) and its mutant bes1-D plants were used for QC, CSC, and columella cell (CC) phenotype analysis and root-regulating gene expression analysis. pBZR1::BZR1-YFP and p35S::BES1-GFP plants were used for BZR1 subcellular localization study and ChIP-qPCR assays. Promoter-driven reporter seeds were kindly provided by Dr Wang at Carnegie Institution for Science, USA ( pBZR1::BZR1-YFP , pBZR1::bzr1-D-CFP , and 35S::BES1-GFP ); Dr Laux at the University of Freiburg, Germany ( pWOX5::GFP ); Dr Benfey at Duke University, USA ( pSCR::SCR-GFP ); Dr Guilfo...
RESULTS: early differentiation of meristematic cells ( Gonzalez-Garcia et al. , 2011 ). In addition, BRs promote QC division and differentiation of distal stem cells. In fact, the BRI1-like 3 (BRL3) signalosome complex containing BAK1 and BRL1 modulates root growth and development by contributing to the cellular activities of provascular and QC cells ( Fàbregas et al. , 2013 ). Recently two BR transcriptional targets— brassinosteroids at vascular and organizing centre (BRAVO) and ethylene response factor 115 (ERF115)—regulating QC quiescence in opposite ways have been identified ( Heyman et al. , 2013 ; Vilarrasa-Blasi et al. , 2014 ). BRAVO acts as a cell-specific repressor of QC divisions, and BR-regulated BES1 counteracts its action by directly repressing and physically interacting with the BRAV...
---
TITLE: Proteomic analysis of mouse brain subjected to spaceflight.
ABSTRACT: is evidence that spaceflight poses acute and late risks to the central nervous system. To explore possible mechanisms, the proteomic changes following spaceflight in mouse brain were characterized. Space Shuttle Atlantis (STS-135) was launched from the Kennedy Space Center (KSC) on a 13-day mission. Within 3–5 h after landing, brain tissue was collected to evaluate protein expression profiles using quantitative proteomic analysis. Our
METHODS: 1. STS-135 Flight Mice and Control Conditions Space Shuttle Atlantis, i.e., Space Transportation System 135 (STS-135), was launched from the Kennedy Space Center (KSC) on a 13-day mission in July of 2011. Female C57BL/6 mice (Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Hollister, CA, USA) were flown in STS-135 using NASA’s animal enclosure modules (AEMs). Mice were housed in two groups of five per AEM, separated by mesh wire. A set of ground controls (Ground AEMs) was housed at the Space Life Science Laboratory (SLSL) at the KSC. Ground AEM control mice were placed into the same housing hardware used in flight and environmental parameters such as temperature and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) levels were matched as closely as possible based on 48-h delayed telemetry data. All mice were under ambient tempera...
RESULTS: that there were 26 proteins that were significantly altered after spaceflight in the gray and/or white matter. While there was no overlap between the white and gray matter in terms of individual proteins, there was overlap in terms of function, synaptic plasticity, vesical activity, protein/organelle transport, and metabolism. Our data demonstrate that exposure to the spaceflight environment induces significant changes in protein expression related to neuronal structure and metabolic function. This might lead to a significant impact on brain structural and functional integrity that could affect the outcome of space missions. Keywords: brain, spaceflight, microgravity, proteomics 1. Introduction Long-term deep space missions expose astronauts to an environment that is characterized mainly b...
---
TITLE: Proteomic study of microsomal proteins reveals a key role for Arabidopsis Annexin 1 in mediating heat stress-induced increase in intracellular calcium levels.
ABSTRACT: understand the early signaling steps in the response of plant cells to increased environmental temperature, 2-D difference gel electrophoresis was used to study the proteins in microsomes of Arabidopsis seedlings that are regulated early during heat stress. Using mass spectrometry, 19 microsomal proteins that showed an altered expression level within 5 min after heat treatment were identified. Among these proteins, annexin 1 (AtANN1) was one of those up-regulated rapidly after heat-shock treatment. Functional studies show loss-of-function mutants for AtANN1 and its close homolog AtANN2 were more sensitive to heat-shock treatment, whereas plants overexpressing AtANN1 showed more resistance to this treatment. Correspondingly, the heat-induced expression of heat-shock proteins and heat-shock factors is inhibited in ann1/ann2 double mutant, and the heat-activated increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration ([Ca 2+ ] cyt ) is greatly impaired in the ann1 mutant and almost undetectable in ...
METHODS: Heat Shock Treatment Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface sterilized using 75% (v/v) ethanol and sowed in glass plates containing 25 ml growth medium containing half-strength Murashige and Skoog (1/2 MS) salt, 1.5% (w/v) sucrose, and 0.8% (w/v) agar. Plates were stratified at 4 °C in darkness for 3 days. Seedlings were allowed to grow at 22 °C under long-day conditions (16 h light/8 h dark) for 1 week. For heat shock treatment, the glass plates were wrapped with general kitchen plastic wrap and submerged in a water bath at the indicated temperature for different periods. The seedlings were returned to 22 °C under long-day to recover for 1 week before taking pictures for analysis. All the data showed in this study has been performed at least three times with similar results. Representati...
RESULTS: that AtANN1 is important in regulating the heat-induced increase in [Ca 2+ ] cyt and in the response of Arabidopsis seedlings to heat stress. Temperatures above the optimum are sensed as heat stress (HS) 1 by all living organisms. When exposed to high temperature, plants have sophisticated mechanisms to maintain cellular homeostasis and minimize cell damage. Heat shock transcription factors (HSFs) mediate gene expression changes leading to the production of heat shock proteins (HSPs) that confer thermotolerance to plants ( 1 , 2 , 3 ). In recent years, there has been considerable progress in identifying the signaling steps that enable plants to respond to heat stress at the molecular level. These include: activation of bZIP transcription factors by heat-induced proteolytic cleavage ( 4 ); ...
---
TITLE: Apyrase inhibitors enhance the ability of diverse fungicides to inhibit the growth of different plant-pathogenic fungi
ABSTRACT: previous study has demonstrated that the treatment of Arabidopsis plants with chemical inhibitors of apyrase enzymes increases their sensitivity to herbicides. In this study, we found that the addition of the same or related apyrase inhibitors could potentiate the ability of different fungicides to inhibit the growth of five different pathogenic fungi in plate growth assays. The growth of all five fungi was partially inhibited by three commonly used fungicides: copper octanoate, myclobutanil and propiconazole. However, when these fungicides were individually tested in combination with any one of four different apyrase inhibitors (AI.1, AI.10, AI.13 or AI.15), their potency to inhibit the growth of five fungal pathogens was increased significantly relative to their application alone. The apyrase inhibitors were most effective in potentiating the ability of copper octanoate to inhibit fungal growth, and least effective in combination with propiconazole. Among the five pathogens assayed, ...
METHODS: in this article. Supplementary Materials Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's website: Fig. S1 (a) Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of apyrases (nucleoside triphosphate‐diphosphohydrolases) from different plants and pathogenic fungi. Arabidopsis thaliana apyrase 1 (AtAPY1; Accession No. NP_187058 ), Arabidopsis thaliana apyrase 2 (AtAPY2; Accession No. NP_001154717 ), Pisum sativum (PsNTP9; Accession No. BAA75506 ), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (ScAPY; Accession No. EDV08832 ), Botrytis cinerea (BcAPY; Accession No. XP_001558134 ), Colletotrichum graminicola (CgAPY; Accession No. EFQ33146 ), Fusarium oxysporum (FoAPY; Accession No. ENH75262 ), Sclerotinia sclerotiorum (SsAPY; Accession No. XP_001590729 ) and Verti...
RESULTS: B. cinerea ABC transporter mutant (ΔBcatrB) shows increased sensitivity to resveratrol and fenpiclonil during its infection of grapevine, suggesting that BcatrB provides protection against the activity of plant defence compounds and fungicides in B. cinerea . Chemical agents that inhibit the activity of ABC transporters help prevent the disease caused by growth of the pathogen Mycosphaerella graminicola on wheat seedlings, although these agents do not synergize the effectiveness of the fungicide cyproconazole (Roohparvar et al ., 2007 ). More recently, another fungal ABC transporter protein has been shown to play a role in providing resistance to fungicides in Clonostchys rosea (Dubey et al ., 2014 ). Any inhibition of the fungal toxin efflux mechanism would increase the potency of fungici...
---
TITLE: ANN1 and ANN2 Function in Post-Phloem Sugar Transport in Root Tips to Affect Primary Root Growth
ABSTRACT: are a multigene family of calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins that play important roles in plant cell signaling. Annexins are multifunctional proteins, and their function in plants is not comprehensively understood. Arabidopsis ( Arabidopsis thaliana ) annexins ANN1 and ANN2 are 64% identical in their primary structure, and both are highly expressed in seedlings. Here, we showed that ann-mutant seedlings grown in the absence of sugar show decreased primary root growth and altered columella cells in root caps; however, these mutant defects are rescued by Suc, Glc, or Fru. In seedlings grown without sugar, significant up-regulation of photosynthetic gene expression and chlorophyll accumulation was found in ann-mutant cotyledons compared to that in wild type, which indicates potential sugar starvation in the roots of ann-mutant seedlings. Unexpectedly, the overall sugar content of ann-mutant primary roots was significantly higher than that of wild-type roots when grown without sug...
METHODS: to the
RESULTS: in this article in accordance with the policy described in the Instructions for Authors ( www.plantphysiol.org ) is: Stanley J. Roux ( sroux@austin.utexas.edu ). S.J.R. and G.C. designed and supervised the experiments; J.W. helped design the experiments and performed them; J.W. and J.S. performed gene ontology analysis of RNA-seq data; J.W., S.J.R., and G.C. wrote the article. Received 2018 Jun 11; Accepted 2018 Jul 4; Issue date 2018 Sep. © 2018 American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC6130020 PMID: 30018170 ANN1 and ANN2 regulate Arabidopsis primary root growth by facilitating post-phloem transport of sugar in root tips.
---
TITLE: Mitochondria-targeted human catalase in the mouse longevity MCAT model mitigates head-tilt bedrest-induced neuro-inflammation in the hippocampus.
ABSTRACT: modeled by head-tilt bedrest and hind-limb unloading), experienced during prolonged spaceflight,
METHODS: 1. Animals and Strains In this study, a subset of the socially housed (2 per cage) sixteen-week-old female wild type C57BL/6NJ and MCAT transgenic mice was utilized as described in [ 20 ] and [ 48 ]. Wild type (WT) and MCAT mice were generated at NASA Ames Research Center (ARC) by crossing male MCAT mice, B6. Cg-Tg (CAG-OTC/CAT) 4033 Prab/J with female C57BL/6NJ mice (from Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA). Genotyping was performed using the Red’N Amp PCR kit following the manufacturer’s protocol (Millipore-Sigma, The Woodlands, TX, USA). All animal procedures were performed in compliance with protocols approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC NAS-16-007-Y2) at NASA Ames Research Center (ARC). 2.2. Hindlimb Unloading to Produce Head-Down Tilt Mice were assi...
RESULTS: neurological consequences, central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction, and potentially impairment during the performance of critical tasks. Similar pathologies are observed in bedrest, sedentary lifestyle, and muscle disuse on Earth. In our previous study, we saw that head-tilt bedrest together with social isolation upregulated the milieu of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the hippocampus and plasma. These changes were mitigated in a MCAT mouse model overexpressing human catalase in the mitochondria, pointing out the importance of ROS signaling in this stress response. Here, we used a head-tilt model in socially housed mice to tease out the effects of head-tilt bedrest without isolation. In order to find the underlying molecular mechanisms that provoked the cytokine response, we measured CD68,...
---
TITLE: Structural and functional properties of bone are compromised in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mice.
ABSTRACT: addition to muscle weakness, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is associated with an increased incidence of skeletal fractures. The SOD1 G93A mouse model recapitulates many features of human ALS. These mice also exhibit decreased bone mass. However, the functional, or biomechanical, behavior of the skeleton in SOD1 G93A mice has not been investigated. To do so, we examined skeletal phenotypes in end-stage (16-week-old) SOD1 G93A female mice and healthy littermate female controls (N=9–10/group). Outcomes included trabecular and cortical bone microarchitecture by microcomputed tomography; stiffness and strength via three-point bending; resistance to crack growth by fracture toughness testing; and cortical bone matrix properties via cyclic reference point indentation. SOD1 G93A mice had similar bone size, but significantly lower trabecular bone mass (−54%), thinner trabeculae (−41%) and decreased cortical bone thickness (−17%) and cortical area (−18%) compared to control mice (all p<0.0...
METHODS: We used 16-week-old ALS SOD1 G93A female mice (Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME) and their sex- and age-matched littermate controls (n = 9–10/group) for this study. These same animals had been previously demonstrated to exhibit decline in electrophysiological and functional parameters in the skeletal muscle ( 6 ). Mice were housed 3–5 per cage, maintained on a 12/12 hour light/dark cycle, had ad libitum access to standard laboratory rodent chow and water, and were sacrificed by CO 2 inhalation at the end of the experiment. All animal procedures were approved by and performed in accordance with the guidelines of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Specimen harvesting and preparation: After being cleaned of its soft tissue, t...
RESULTS: strong rationale for interventions to reduce fracture risk in ALS patients with advanced disease. Keywords: ALS mouse model, bone strength, bone biomechanics, fracture toughness, microCT Introduction In addition to severe skeletal muscle deterioration, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has recently been linked to increased incidences of skeletal fractures, as well as elevated serum bone turnover markers in ALS patients ( 1 , 2 ). These patients exhibit decreased bone mineral density, which is associated with increased fracture risks ( 3 , 4 ). It is postulated that reduced mechanical load from skeletal muscle atrophy contributes to bone loss, but the exact alterations in bone functional, or biomechanical, properties are still unclear. The ALS SOD1 G93A mouse model has recently been shown...
---
TITLE: Longitudinal time course of muscle impairments during partial weight-bearing in rats
ABSTRACT: the near future, space agencies plan to send the first crews for extended stays on the Moon and Mars, where gravity is significantly reduced compared to Earth (0.16× g and 0.38× g , respectively). However, the long-term effects of partial gravity have not yet been elucidated, and ensuring astronauts’ health and performance is crucial to the success of these missions. Using a quadrupedal partial weight-bearing (PWB) model in rats that we designed, we investigated the longitudinal time course of muscle function at three different PWB levels. We demonstrated that both muscle mass and muscle function are significantly impaired in reduced weight-bearing environments as early as after 7 days of suspension. Moreover, we showed that muscular alterations are correlated to the PWB level and do not reach a plateau during a 1-month exposure to reduced weight-bearing, emphasizing the need for mitigating countermeasures for safe and successful extraterrestrial exploration. Subject terms: Experimenta...
METHODS: Wistar male rats, n = 149, (Charles River Laboratories Inc., Wilmington, MA, USA) weighing a mean ± standard error of 408 ± 0.15 g (14 weeks of age) were obtained and housed in a temperature-controlled (22 ± range of 2 °C) room with a 12:12-h light–dark cycle. Water and rat chow were provided ad libitum and monitored daily. Rats were regularly assessed for any signs of pain or discomfort (e.g., porphyric staining around the eyes, poor grooming, and hair loss), harness and jacket fitting, ability to walk and move across the cage, food and water intake. Additionally, fully loaded and partially loaded mass measurements were recorded daily. All experimental protocols were approved by the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. For all experiments requi...
RESULTS: consistency of the PWB level achieved was high (Fig. 1a ). Indeed, all unloaded groups displayed minimal differences between their achieved and desired PWB level, which was further demonstrated by low coefficients of variation (PWB70: 0.54%, PWB40: 1.20%, PWB20: 0.95%). Actual body mass without the harness was recorded weekly (Fig. 1b ), and at all time-points, PWB animals displayed a significantly different body mass change compared to the normal loading (PWB100) controls. Despite exhibiting a transient and significant loss of body mass in the first 14 days, all groups reached a body mass significantly above their baseline but lower than the PWB100 control rats after 28 days of suspension. Fig. 1. Open in a new tab Tolerability and stability of the PWB model over time. Daily achieved part...
---
TITLE: Homotypic vacuole fusion requires VTI11 and is regulated by phosphoinositides
ABSTRACT: vacuole is an essential organelle in plant cells, and its dynamic nature is important for plant growth and development. Homotypic membrane fusion is required for vacuole biogenesis, pollen germination, stomata opening, and gravity perception. Known components of the vacuole fusion machinery in eukaryotes include SNARE proteins, Rab GTPases, phosphoinositides, and the homotypic fusion and vacuolar protein sorting (HOPS) tethering complex. HOPS function is not well characterized in plants, but roles in embryogenesis and pollen tube elongation have been reported. Here, we show that Arabidopsis HOPS subunits VPS33 and VPS41 accumulate in late endosomes and that VPS41, but not VPS33, accumulates in the tonoplast via a wortmannin-sensitive process. VPS41 and VPS33 proteins bind to liposomes, but this binding is inhibited by phosphatidylinosiltol-3-phosphate [PtdIns(3)P] and PtdIns(3,5)P 2 , which implicates a nonconserved mechanism for HOPS recruitment in plants. Inducible knockdown of VPS41...
METHODS: Conditions, and Transformation. Arabidopsis thaliana plants were grown as described ( 2 ). The ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was used as WT control. The genomic VPS41-GFP fusion ( VPS41p::VPS41-GFP ) was described elsewhere ( 4 ). Organelle markers mRFP-SYP22 ( 18 ), mCherry-RAB5 (mCherry-RabF2a), and mCherry-RAB7 (mCherry-RabG3f) ( 51 ) have been previously described. SALK T-DNA insertion lines, including vps41-1 (SALK_076372), vps41-2 (SALK_035406), vps33-3 (SALK_016684C), vps33-4 (SALK_151719), and vps33-5 (SALK_143407), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) and genotyped by PCR ( SI Appendix , Table S4 ). The zip2 zig-1 mutant was previously characterized ( 56 ). The TILLING lines ( 57 ) vps33-1 (CS92162) and vps33-2 (CS93595) were obtained from ABRC and backc...
RESULTS: both conserved and specific mechanisms for HOPS recruitment and function during vacuole fusion in plants. The plant vacuole is an essential organelle with multiple roles including storage, pH homeostasis, and recycling ( 1 ). Vacuole fusion is required for stomata opening, pollen fertility, and embryo viability ( 2 – 4 ). Two types of vacuoles exist in plant cells. Embryos in developing seeds contain multiple protein storage vacuoles (PSVs), which have a neutral pH and accumulate storage proteins such as the 7S and 11S globulins. Cells in most mature tissues, instead, contain one large lytic vacuole, which is acidic, abundant in lytic proteases, and critical for ion homeostasis and cell turgor ( 5 ). Transition from PSVs to lytic vacuoles occurs during germination ( 6 ) and involves PSV fu...
---
TITLE: Altered quorum sensing and physiology of Staphylococcus aureus during spaceflight detected by multi-omics data analysis
ABSTRACT: aureus colonizes the nares of approximately 30% of humans, a risk factor for opportunistic infections. To gain insight into S. aureus virulence potential in the spaceflight environment, we analyzed RNA-Seq, cellular proteomics, and metabolomics data from the “Biological Research in Canisters-23” (BRIC-23) GeneLab spaceflight experiment, a mission designed to measure the response of S. aureus to growth in low earth orbit on the international space station. This experiment used Biological Research in Canisters-Petri Dish Fixation Units (BRIC-PDFUs) to grow asynchronous ground control and spaceflight cultures of S. aureus for 48 h. RNAIII, the effector of the Accessory Gene Regulator (Agr) quorum sensing system, was the most highly upregulated gene transcript in spaceflight relative to ground controls. The agr operon gene transcripts were also highly upregulated during spaceflight, followed by genes encoding phenol-soluble modulins and secreted proteases, which are positively regulated by...
METHODS: of BRIC-23 experimental design A general overview of the BRIC-23 flight (FLT) experiment is outlined in Fig. 1 , and complete details have been previously described 20 , 21 . In brief, two BRIC-PDFUs (each containing five 60 mm Petri dishes with 10 7 CFU of S. aureus UAMS-1 23 cells dried on the bottom of each plate) were launched to the ISS on SpaceX CRS-9 on 07/18/2016. Growth was actuated in each petri dish by addition of 8.5 ml tryptone soytone yeast extract medium containing 10% glycerol (TSYG) on 07/22/2016, followed by growth at ~22 °C for 48 h. BRIC-PDFUs were then placed in −80 °C stowage until return from the ISS on 08/30/2016. Samples remained frozen during return and were stored at −80 °C until deintegration. Ground control (GC) experiments were performed asynchronously with th...
RESULTS: considerations, sample variability, and clustering amongst FLT and GC samples As outlined in Fig. 1a , the BRIC-23 flight (FLT) experiment and corresponding asynchronous ground controls (GCs) were conducted on S. aureus cultures grown to a single time point (48 h) at ISS ambient ( ~ 22 °C) temperature. The total CFUs per petri dish harvested from both flight and ground control experiments (as reported in OSDR entry OSD-145) suggested that the FLT cultures may have grown to higher cell densities compared to GC cultures (Fig. 1b ). Fig. 1. BRIC-23 Flight Experiment Overview and Associated Data. Open in a new tab a Overview of BRIC-23 Flight Experiment. Full details have been previously published in 20 , 21 . b Average total CFU harvested from FLT and GC cultures. c Average protein concentrat...
---
TITLE: Investigation of simulated microgravity effects on Streptococcus mutans physiology and global gene expression.
ABSTRACT: have been previously shown to exhibit decreased salivary lysozyme and increased dental calculus and gingival inflammation in response to space flight, host factors that could contribute to oral diseases such as caries and periodontitis. However, the specific physiological response of caries-causing bacteria such as Streptococcus mutans to space flight and/or ground-based simulated microgravity has not been extensively investigated. In this study, high aspect ratio vessel S. mutans simulated microgravity and normal gravity cultures were assessed for changes in metabolite and transcriptome profiles, H 2 O 2 resistance, and competence in sucrose-containing biofilm media. Stationary phase S. mutans simulated microgravity cultures displayed increased killing by H 2 O 2 compared to normal gravity control cultures, but competence was not affected. RNA-seq analysis revealed that expression of 153 genes was up-regulated ≥2-fold and 94 genes down-regulated ≥2-fold during simulated microgravity h...
METHODS: maintaining oral hygiene and dental health under a microgravity environment are required. 15 Previous studies on the effects of spaceflight on the oral microbiota have primarily focused on culture-dependent methods of quantifying the numbers of oral bacteria in human subjects before and after spaceflight. 16 – 18 Furthermore, astronauts have been shown to exhibit decreased salivary lysozyme and increased dental calculus and gingival inflammation in response to space flight. 16 However, assessment of the physiology and virulence potential of oral pathogens such as S. mutans under controlled microgravity analog conditions has been relatively lacking. In this respect, rotating wall vessel bioreactors are a common technology used to grow bacteria under microgravity analog conditions in ground-...
RESULTS: that growth under microgravity analog conditions promotes changes in S. mutans gene expression and physiology that may translate to an altered cariogenic potential of this organism during space flight missions. Microbiology: Cavities-causing bacteria altered by space-like conditions The gene expression patterns, metabolism and physiology of tooth cavities-causing microbes change in a space-like gravity environment. These
---
TITLE: Mammalian and Invertebrate Models as Complementary Tools for Gaining Mechanistic Insight on Muscle Responses to Spaceflight
ABSTRACT: approaches have proven useful in understanding biological responses to spaceflight. Spaceflight experiments remain resource intensive and rare. One outstanding issue is how to maximize scientific output from a limited number of omics datasets from traditional animal models including nematodes, fruitfly, and rodents. The utility of omics data from invertebrate models in anticipating mammalian responses to spaceflight has not been fully explored. Hence, we performed comparative analyses of transcriptomes of soleus and extensor digitorum longus (EDL) in mice that underwent 37 days of spaceflight.
METHODS: for further details on criteria). Table 1. Datasets used in the study, including the organism’s name, duration of spaceflight or unloading, assay type, sex, strain, tissue, age, and sample size. Refer to GeneLab and GEO databases for further details. GC: ground control, FLT: spaceflight, VC: vivarium control, HU: hindlimb unloading, Gastroc: gastrocnemius, Quad: quadriceps, VL: vastus lateralis, F: female, M: male, Mx: mixed; H: hermaphrodite. Tg: Gal4-UAS transgenic line expressing two copies of eGFP from the hemolectin promoter. N: number of individuals, rep: replicate of pooled samples run for transcriptomic analysis. Refer to [ 24 , 25 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 42 , 43 ] for links to GeneLab processed data and versions used in this study. Dataset Organism Duration Vehicle Assay Sex St...
RESULTS: shared stress responses and altered circadian rhythm. EDL showed more robust growth signals and Pde2a downregulation, possibly underlying its resistance to atrophy versus soleus. Spaceflight and hindlimb unloading mice shared differential regulation of proliferation, circadian, and neuronal signaling. Shared gene regulation in muscles of humans on bedrest and space flown rodents suggest targets for mitigating muscle atrophy in space and on Earth. Spaceflight responses of C. elegans were more similar to EDL. Discrete life stages of D. melanogaster have distinct utility in anticipating EDL and soleus responses. In
---
TITLE: The interaction of vortical flows with red cells in venous valve mimics.
ABSTRACT: motion of cells orthogonal to the direction of main flow is of importance in natural and engineered systems. The lateral movement of red blood cells (RBCs) distal to sudden expansion is considered to influence the formation and progression of thrombosis in venous valves, aortic aneurysms, and blood-circulating devices and is also a determining parameter for cell separation applications in flow-focusing microfluidic devices. Although it is known that the unique geometry of venous valves alters the blood flow patterns and cell distribution in venous valve sinuses, the interactions between fluid flow and RBCs have not been elucidated. Here, using a dilute cell suspension in an in vitro microfluidic model of a venous valve, we quantified the spatial distribution of RBCs by microscopy and image analysis, and using micro-particle image velocimetry and 3D computational fluid dynamics simulations, we analyzed the complex flow patterns. The
METHODS: San José State University, San José, California 95192, USA Find articles by Zyrina Alura C Sanchez 1 , Vignesha Vijayananda Vignesha Vijayananda 1 Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, San José State University, San José, California 95192, USA Find articles by Vignesha Vijayananda 1 , Devin M Virassammy Devin M Virassammy 1 Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, San José State University, San José, California 95192, USA Find articles by Devin M Virassammy 1 , Liat Rosenfeld Liat Rosenfeld 1 Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, San José State University, San José, California 95192, USA Find articles by Liat Rosenfeld 1, a) , Anand K Ramasubramanian Anand K Ramasubramanian 1 Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, San José State University, San J...
RESULTS: that the local hematocrit in the valve pockets is spatially heterogeneous and is significantly different from the feed hematocrit. Above a threshold shear rate, the inertial separation of streamlines and lift forces contribute to an uneven distribution of RBCs in the vortices, the entrapment of RBCs in the vortices, and non-monotonic wall shear stresses in the valve pockets. Our experimental and computational characterization provides insights into the complex interactions between fluid flow, RBC distribution, and wall shear rates in venous valve mimics, which is of relevance to understanding the pathophysiology of thrombosis and improving cell separation efficiency. INTRODUCTION Red blood cells (RBCs) or erythrocytes are the most abundant cells in blood with 5 × 10 9 cells/ml accounting f...
---
TITLE: Plant chemical genomics: gravity sensing and response.
ABSTRACT: first genome sequenced of a eukaryotic organism was for Saccharomyces cerevisiae , as reported in 1996, but it was more than 10 years before any of the zygomycete fungi, which are the early-diverging terrestrial fungi currently placed in the phyla Mucoromycota and Zoopagomycota , were sequenced. The genome for Rhizopus delemar was completed in 2008; currently, more than 1000 zygomycete genomes have been sequenced. Genomic data from these early-diverging terrestrial fungi revealed deep phylogenetic separation of the two major clades—primarily plant—associated saprotrophic and mycorrhizal Mucoromycota versus the primarily mycoparasitic or animal-associated parasites and commensals in the Zoopagomycota . Genomic studies provide many valuable insights into how these fungi evolved in response to the challenges of living on land, including adaptations to sensing light and gravity, development of hyphal growth, and co-existence with the first terrestrial plants. Genome sequence data have faci...
METHODS: have been used to sequence zygomycete genomes and which genomes have been sequenced, and (2) consider insights into the genomic architecture, gene content, and evolutionary history gained from these data. Figure 1. Open in a new tab Distribution of sequenced genomes among genera. Different shades of green and brown— Mucoromycota ; purple and blue— Zoopagomycota . 2. Sequencing the Zygomycetes Axenic cultures remain the preferred and most straightforward method of obtaining high-molecular-weight genomic DNA for sequencing projects [ 19 ]. Typically, the easier a species is to grow in culture, the easier it is to obtain pure, unfragmented DNA of high quality. In some cases, however, DNA from a single cell or even nuclei can be extracted and sequenced. This technique has been especially succe...
RESULTS: Zoopagomycota and Mucoromycota are maintained as monophyletic lineages, a recent study by Li et al. [ 51 ] found that Zoopagomycota and Mucoromycota formed one larger monophyletic clade in some (but not all) of their analyses. In contrast, other recent phylogenomic studies by Strassert and Monaghan [ 52 ] and Galindo et al. [ 53 ] recovered a topology that was similar to Spatafora et al. [ 6 ], where the Zoopagomycota were resolved as the sister group to all terrestrial fungi. In many of the studies, the position of Glomeromycotina has been problematic, suggesting that more work will be needed to resolve the placement of this clade [ 51 , 54 ]. One of the greatest debates in early-diverging fungal evolution was the ploidy of the dominant life form given the predominantly haploid nature see...
---
TITLE: Lab-on-a-chip approaches for space-biology research.
ABSTRACT: space race is entering a new era of exploration, in which the number of robotic and human missions to various places in our solar system is rapidly increasing. Despite the recent advances in propulsion and life support technologies, there is a growing need to perform analytical measurements and laboratory experiments across diverse domains of science, while keeping low payload requirements. In this context, lab-on-a-chip nanobiosensors appear to be an emerging technology capable of revolutionizing space exploration, given their low footprint, high accuracy, and low payload requirements. To date, only some approaches for monitoring astronaut health in spacecraft environments have been reported. Although non-invasive molecular diagnostics, like lab-on-a-chip technology, are expected to improve the quality of long-term space missions, their application to monitor microbiological and environmental variables is rarely reported, even for analogous extreme environments on Earth. The possibili...
METHODS: Correspondence: Stefano Cinti, stefano.cinti@unina.it * Donato Giovannelli, donato.giovannelli@unina.it Received 2023 May 2; Accepted 2023 Jul 31; Collection date 2023. Copyright © 2023 Cinti, Singh, Covone, Tonietti, Ricciardelli, Cordone, Iacono, Mazzoli, Moracci, Rotundi and Giovannelli. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC10470837 PMID: 37664111
RESULTS: decadal studies conducted by NASA, a series of microbial tracking experiments have been launched aiming to understand the dynamics of microbial persistence on spacecraft and related microbial processes, including biofilm formation, pathogenicity, and virulence ( Bijlani et al., 2021 ). Conducting experiments in space and transporting samples back to Earth for further studies require a significant investment of time, money, and human effort. Therefore, microbiological risk must be regularly assessed and controlled. These applications require sensors that operate under extreme conditions with long-term accuracy and precision. In this context, nanomaterials are promising candidates for the manufacture of single-molecule nano-biosensors with high-throughput biosensor arrays, with improved elec...
---
TITLE: Multi-analyte biochip (MAB) based on all-solid-state ion-selective electrodes (ASSISE) for physiological research
ABSTRACT: on-a-chip (LOC) applications in environmental, biomedical, agricultural, biological, and spaceflight research require an ion-selective electrode (ISE) that can withstand prolonged storage in complex biological media 1-4 . An all-solid-state ion-selective-electrode (ASSISE) is especially attractive for the aforementioned applications. The electrode should have the following favorable characteristics: easy construction, low maintenance, and (potential for) miniaturization, allowing for batch processing. A microfabricated ASSISE intended for quantifying H + , Ca 2+ , and CO 3 2- ions was constructed. It consists of a noble-metal electrode layer ( i.e. Pt), a transduction layer, and an ion-selective membrane (ISM) layer. The transduction layer functions to transduce the concentration-dependent chemical potential of the ion-selective membrane into a measurable electrical signal. The lifetime of an ASSISE is found to depend on maintaining the potential at the conductive layer/membrane interf...
METHODS: biochip is 10 x 11 mm in dimension and has 9 ASSISEs designated as working electrodes (WEs) and 5 Ag/AgCl reference electrodes (REs). Each working electrode (WE) is 240 μm in diameter and is equally spaced at 1.4 mm from the REs, which are 480 μm in diameter. These electrodes are connected to electrical contact pads with a dimension of 0.5 mm x 0.5 mm. The schematic is shown in Figure 2 . Cyclic voltammetry (CV) and galvanostatic deposition methods are used to electropolymerize the PEDOT films using a Bioanalytical Systems Inc. (BASI) C3 cell stand ( Figure 3 ). The counter-ion for the PEDOT film is tailored to suit the analyte ion of interest. A PEDOT with poly(styrenesulfonate) counter ion (PEDOT/PSS) is utilized for H + and CO 3 2- , while one with sulphate (added to the solution as CaS...
RESULTS: example of a cyclic voltammogram (CV) result of PEDOT:PSS and its corresponding cathodic peak current ( i p ) vs. the scan rate ( v 1/2 ) are shown in Figures 5a and 5b respectively. PEDOT:CaSO 4 at various scan rates and its cathodic peak current are not shown. Using Randles-Sevcik analysis 10 , the effective surface areas of the solid contact PEDOT:PSS and PEDOT:CaSO 4 without ion-selective membrane were found to be 4.4 x 10 -11 cm 2 and 5.8 x 10 -11 cm 2 , respectively. These values are relatively small in comparison to previous reported electrodes owing to the electrode size being ~130 times smaller than the electrode size reported from our research group 11 . Note that the MAB electrode effective surface area could be enhanced by modifying the surface with nano
---
TITLE: Simulated microgravity impairs human NK [natural killer] cell cytotoxic activity against space radiation-relevant leukemic cells
ABSTRACT: killer (NK) cells are an important first-line of defense against malignant cells. Because of the potential for increased cancer risk from astronaut exposure to space radiation, we determined whether microgravity present during spaceflight affects the body’s defenses against leukemogenesis. Human NK cells were cultured for 48 h under normal gravity and simulated microgravity (sμG), and cytotoxicity against K-562 (CML) and MOLT-4 (T-ALL) cells was measured using standard
METHODS: under continuous sμG. This brief exposure to sμG markedly reduced NK cytotoxicity against both leukemias, and these deleterious effects were more pronounced in continuous sμG. RNA-seq performed on NK cells from two additional healthy donors provided insight into the mechanism(s) by which sμG reduced cytotoxicity. Given our prior report of space radiation-induced human T-ALL in vivo, the reduced cytotoxicity against MOLT-4 is striking and raises the possibility that μG may increase astronaut risk of leukemogenesis during prolonged missions beyond LEO. Subject terms: Tumour immunology, Haematological cancer Introduction Natural killer (NK) cells are effector lymphocytes of the innate immune system that perform immunosurveillance and provide a first line of defense against virally-infected ce...
RESULTS: concerning in their own right, the well documented dysregulation of multiple facets of the immune response that occurs during even short duration spaceflight 14 – 17 suggests that accurate cancer risk assessment during future multiple-year missions in deep space will require consideration of not just the incidence of carcinogenesis arising from IR exposure, but also the fitness of the astronauts’ anti-tumor immunity. Given their key role in anti-tumor immunity, several studies have begun addressing the effect of spaceflight on the functionality of human NK cells 18 – 26 . While these studies have collectively revealed that spaceflight stressors, in particular microgravity, negatively impact NK cells, it is important to note that these studies were all conducted on Earth under conditions of...
---
TITLE: Functional changes in the snail statocyst system elicited by microgravity
ABSTRACT: The mollusk statocyst is a mechanosensing organ detecting the animal's orientation with respect to gravity. This system has clear similarities to its vertebrate counterparts: a weight-lending mass, an epithelial layer containing small supporting cells and the large sensory hair cells, and an output eliciting compensatory body reflexes to perturbations.
METHODS: tools: PMB AYM VNI NA TAK NIB MSL MR ISZ RB. Wrote the manuscript: PMB AYM VNI NA RB. Roles Hiromu Tanimoto : Editor Received 2010 Aug 3; Accepted 2011 Feb 11; Collection date 2011. This is an open-access article, free of all copyright, and may be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, modified, built upon, or otherwise used by anyone for any lawful purpose. The work is made available under the Creative Commons CC0 public domain dedication. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Public Domain declaration, which stipulates that, once placed in the public domain, this work may be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, modified, built upon, or otherwise used by anyone for any lawful purpose. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC3066201 PMID: 2...
RESULTS: terrestrial gastropod snail we studied the impact of 16- (Foton M-2) and 12-day (Foton M-3) exposure to microgravity in unmanned orbital missions on: (i) the whole animal behavior ( Helix lucorum L.), (ii) the statoreceptor responses to tilt in an isolated neural preparation ( Helix lucorum L.), and (iii) the differential expression of the Helix pedal peptide (HPep) and the tetrapeptide FMRFamide genes in neural structures ( Helix aspersa L.). Experiments were performed 13–42 hours after return to Earth. Latency of body re-orientation to sudden 90° head-down pitch was significantly reduced in postflight snails indicating an enhanced negative gravitaxis response. Statoreceptor responses to tilt in postflight snails were independent of motion direction, in contrast to a directional preferenc...
---
TITLE: RNAseq analysis of rodent spaceflight experiments is confounded by sample collection techniques
ABSTRACT: understand the physiological changes that occur in response to spaceflight, mice are transported to the International Space Station (ISS) and housed for variable periods of time before euthanasia on-orbit or return to Earth. Sample collection under such difficult conditions introduces confounding factors that need to be identified and addressed. We found large changes in the transcriptome of mouse tissues dissected and preserved on-orbit compared with tissues from mice euthanized on-orbit, preserved, and dissected after return to Earth. Changes due to preservation method eclipsed those between flight and ground samples, making it difficult to identify spaceflight-specific changes. Follow-on experiments to interrogate the roles of euthanasia
METHODS: and carcass preservation protocols, and library preparation methods suggested that differences due to preservation protocols are exacerbated when coupled with polyA selection. This has important implications for the interpretation of existing datasets and the design of future experiments. Subject Areas: Transcriptomics, Space Sciences Graphical
RESULTS: performed follow-on experiments to interrogate the role of euthanasia methods, tissue and carcass preservation protocols, and library preparation methods on DGE changes. Our
---
TITLE: Conserved plant transcriptional responses to microgravity from two consecutive spaceflight experiments.
ABSTRACT: Understanding how plants adapt to the space environment is essential, as plants will be a valuable component of long duration space missions. Several spaceflight experiments have focused on transcriptional profiling as a means of understanding plant adaptation to microgravity. However, there is limited overlap between
METHODS: Signaling (PS) and Plant RNA Regulation (PRR) were two separate spaceflight experiments conducted on the International Space Station utilizing the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS). The EMCS provided a lighted environment for plant growth with centrifugal capabilities providing an onboard 1 g control. Results and
RESULTS: different experiments. Differences in experimental conditions and hardware make it difficult to find a consistent response across experiments and to distinguish the primary effects of microgravity from other spaceflight effects.
---
TITLE: Uncovering transcriptional responses to fractional gravity in Arabidopsis roots
ABSTRACT: many reports characterize the transcriptional response of Arabidopsis seedlings to microgravity, few investigate the effect of partial or fractional gravity on gene expression. Understanding plant responses to fractional gravity is relevant for plant growth on lunar and Martian surfaces. The plant signaling flight experiment utilized the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) onboard the International Space Station (ISS). The EMCS consisted of two rotors within a controlled chamber allowing for two experimental conditions, microgravity (stationary rotor) and simulated gravity in space. Seedlings were grown for 5 days under continuous light in seed cassettes. The arrangement of the seed cassettes within each experimental container
METHODS: hardware choices confound direct comparisons between these studies, but Arabidopsis gene expression alterations in response to spaceflight have been observed for a variety of protein functional groups, including heat shock proteins (HSP)s [ 7 , 10 , 11 ], plant defense proteins [ 8 ], light response proteins [ 12 ], and cell wall proteins [ 9 , 10 ]. However, only a few spaceflight experiments to date have examined gene expression under fractional gravity in a systematic fashion [ 15 , 16 ]. The studies that have examined the effects of partial gravity during spaceflight have revealed a suite of transcriptional and physiological changes that occur with varying intensity as gravity increases from microgravity towards 1 g . Some physiological responses vary in a step-like fashion with increa...
RESULTS: a gradient of fractional g (in the spinning rotor). To investigate whether gene expression patterns are sensitive to fractional g , we carried out transcriptional profiling of root samples exposed to microgravity or partial g (ranging from 0.53 to 0.88 g ). Data were analyzed using DESeq2 with fractional g as a continuous variable in the design model in order to query gene expression across the gravity continuum. We identified a subset of genes whose expression correlates with changes in fractional g . Interestingly, the most responsive genes include those encoding transcription factors, defense, and cell wall-related proteins and heat shock proteins. Keywords: spaceflight, fractional gravity, RNA-seq, Arabidopsis, gene expression, heat shock proteins 1. Introduction Plant cultivation will...
---
TITLE: Phosphoinositide-signaling is one component of a robust plant defense response
ABSTRACT: phosphoinositide pathway and inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate (InsP 3 ) have been implicated in plant responses to many abiotic stresses; however, their role in response to biotic stress is not well characterized. In the current study, we show that both basal defense and systemic acquired resistance responses are affected in transgenic plants constitutively expressing the human type I inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase (InsP 5-ptase) which have greatly reduced InsP 3 levels. Flagellin induced Ca 2+ -release as well as the expressions of some flg22 responsive genes were attenuated in the InsP 5-ptase plants. Furthermore, the InsP 5-ptase plants were more susceptible to virulent and avirulent strains of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato ( Pst ) DC3000 . The InsP 5-ptase plants had lower basal salicylic acid (SA) levels and the induction of SAR in systemic leaves was reduced and delayed. Reciprocal exudate experiments showed that although the InsP 5-ptase plants produced equally effective mole...
METHODS: conditions for plants and bacteria Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the human type I inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase generated via Agrobacterium mediated transformation were generated previously (Perera et al., 2006 ). Plants were grown in a growth chamber under 8 h light/16 h dark, light intensity of ~150 μmol m −2 s −1 , 35–50% humidity and temperature of 21°C. All experiments were carried out using 6–8 week old healthy well watered plants with fully expanded leaves (prior to bolting). For most experiments, wild type (Wt) and two independent transgenic lines (T6 and T8), were tested along with the empty vector control (C2). Bacterial strains Pst DC3000 and isogenic lines carrying avrRpt2 or avrRpm1 genes were cultured at room temperature in King's medium B (40 g L −1 peptone...
RESULTS: the involvement of the phosphoinositides in plant defense; however there are many missing links in our understanding. In this study, our goal was to further investigate the function of phosphoinositide-mediated signaling in the plant defense network. In previous work, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the human type I inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase (InsP 5-ptase), which specifically hydrolyzes soluble inositol phosphates and terminates InsP 3 -mediated signals. These InsP 5-ptase transgenic plants have normal growth and morphology under optimal growth conditions. However, their basal InsP 3 levels are greatly reduced, to only ~5% of wild type level (Perera et al., 2006 ). The InsP 5-ptase plants exhibit delayed and reduced responses to gravity and impaired Ca 2+ s...
---
TITLE: Basal signaling regulates plant growth and development
ABSTRACT: proline-rich extensin-like receptor kinase ( PERK ) gene family is crucial to various molecular and cellular processes in plants. We identified 50 PERK genes in Brassica napus to explore their evolutionary dynamics, structural diversity, and functional roles. These genes were grouped into four classes and unevenly distributed across 18 chromosomes. Phylogenetic studies and Ka/Ks ratios revealed purifying selection during the evolution process. They exhibited significant diversification in gene length, molecular weight, and isoelectric points, suggesting specialized function. Gene structure and motif analyses revealed variations among the BnPERK family members, with conserved tyrosine kinase domains suggesting functional importance. Cis -element analysis predicted the involvement in hormone signaling and stress responses. Expression profiling showed diverse patterns across tissues and hormone treatments, highlighting potential roles in growth regulation and hormone signaling. Protein–pr...
METHODS: 1. Identification of BnPERK Genes in Brassica napus The BnPERK gene family was selected in this study due to its critical role in plant growth, development, and stress responses. It has not been extensively studied in B. napus , making it a valuable target for genome-wide analysis. The genomic data and annotation for the B. napus cultivar ‘ZS11’ were sourced from B. napus multi-omics information resource (BnIR) ( https://yanglab.hzau.edu.cn/BnIR , accessed on 1 March 2024) [ 46 ]. The PERK genes in B. napus were identified using BLASTp ( https://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ ) with an E-value threshold of 10 −5 , employing the protein sequence of 15 AtPERKs as queries [ 11 ]. The BnPERK gene family members were named based on their orthologous relationships and chromosomal location. By searching...
RESULTS: 1. Identification and Phylogenetic Analysis of BnPERKs in Brassica napus Fifty PERK genes were identified within the B. napus ‘ZS11’ genome ( Supplementary Tables S2 and S3 ). Identification was accomplished through an extensive BLAST search using 15 AtPERK sequences, revealing a higher number of BnPERK genes compared with those reported in Arabidopsis , Chinese cabbage, soybean, rice, sorghum, maize, cotton, and wheat ( Supplementary Table S4 ). The BnPERK family of proteins exhibited varying lengths, ranging from 187 to 921 amino acids. Their molecular weights (MWs) spanned from 20.63 to 102.21 kDa, with BnPERK15C2 and BnPERK15A2 representing the extremes. Additionally, the isoelectric points (pIs) ranged from 5.26 to 8.59 ( Supplementary Table S5 ). The data plots illustrated that BnPER...
---
TITLE: Spaceflight-induced gene expression profiles in the mouse brain are attenuated by treatment with the antioxidant BuOE
ABSTRACT: demands of deep space pose a health risk to the central nervous system that has long been a concern when sending humans to space. While little is known about how spaceflight affects transcription spatially in the brain, a greater understanding of this process has the potential to aid strategies that mitigate the effects of spaceflight on the brain. Therefore, we performed GeoMx Digital Spatial Profiling of mouse brains subjected to either spaceflight or grounded controls. Four brain regions were selected: Cortex, Frontal Cortex, Corunu Ammonis I, and Dentate Gyrus. Antioxidants have emerged as a potential means of attenuating the effects of spaceflight, so we treated a subset of the mice with a superoxide dismutase mimic, MnTnBuOE-2-PyP 5+ (BuOE). Our analysis revealed hundreds of differentially expressed genes due to spaceflight in each of the four brain regions. Both common and region-specific transcriptomic responses were observed. Metabolic pathways and pathways sensitive to oxidat...
METHODS: original draft, Writing – review & editing Find articles by Xiaowen Mao 1, * Editors: John Lawler , Khaled Kamal Author information Article notes Copyright and License information 1 Department of Basic Sciences, Division of Biomedical Engineering Sciences (BMES), Loma Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA; ikremsky@llu.edu (I.K.); samirali@llu.edu (S.A.); sstanbouly@llu.edu (S.S.); jholley@llu.edu (J.H.); sjustinen@students.llu.edu (S.J.); mpecaut@llu.edu (M.P.) 2 Center for Genomics, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA 3 Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine, National Jewish Health, University of Colorado Denver, Denver, CO 80206, USA; james.crapo@gmail.com * Correspondence: xmao@llu.edu Roles...
RESULTS: our understanding of brain regional variation in susceptibility to spaceflight conditions. BuOE reduced the transcriptomic effects of spaceflight at a large number of genes, suggesting that this compound may attenuate oxidative stress-induced brain damage caused by the spaceflight environment. Keywords: spaceflight, brain, digital spatial profiling, gene expression, regional difference 1. Introduction Radiation exposure and other stressors experienced during extended deep-space missions have the potential to compromise the function of many bodily systems [ 1 , 2 , 3 ]. The health risks of spaceflight-induced damage related to the central nervous system (CNS), such as cognitive impairment and neurodegenerative effects, have long been a concern. Animal studies have shown that memory, cogniti...
---
TITLE: Transcriptomic effects on the mouse heart following 30 days on the International Space Station.
ABSTRACT: to understand the impact of spaceflight on the human body stem from growing interest in long-term space travel. Multiple organ systems are affected by microgravity and radiation, including the cardiovascular system. Previous transcriptomic studies have sought to reveal the changes in gene expression after spaceflight. However, little is known about the impact of long-term spaceflight on the mouse heart in vivo. This study focuses on the transcriptomic changes in the hearts of female C57BL/6J mice flown on the International Space Station (ISS) for 30 days. RNA was isolated from the hearts of three flight and three comparable ground control mice and RNA sequencing was performed. Our analyses showed that 1147 transcripts were significantly regulated after spaceflight. The MAPK, PI3K-Akt, and GPCR signaling pathways were predicted to be activated. Transcripts related to cytoskeleton breakdown and organization were upregulated, but no significant change in the expression of extracellular ma...
METHODS: Resources, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition Find articles by Mary Kearns-Jonker 1, * Editor: Daniela Grimm Author information Article notes Copyright and License information 1 Department of Pathology and Human Anatomy, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA 2 Department of Basic Sciences, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA * Correspondence: mkearnsjonker@llu.edu † These authors contributed equally to this manuscript. Roles Alicia L Veliz : Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Data curation, Writing – original draft, Visualization Lana Mamoun : Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Data curation, Writing – original draft, Visualization Lorelei Hughes : Validation, F...
RESULTS: an absence of cellular senescence, and a significant upregulation of transcripts associated with the cell cycle. Transcripts related to cellular maintenance and survival were most affected by spaceflight, suggesting that cardiovascular transcriptome initiates an adaptive response to long-term spaceflight. Keywords: International Space Station, spaceflight, transcriptomics, cardiovascular system, RNA sequencing, adaptive response, signaling, oxidative stress 1. Introduction The historic Apollo 11 mission to the moon stimulated a shift into a new era of research, merging biology and aerospace in an effort to achieve a greater understanding of the impact of spaceflight on the human body. Microgravity at low earth orbit (LEO), experienced aboard the International Space Station (ISS), causes ch...
---
TITLE: Mimicking the host and its microenvironment in vitro for studying mucosal infections by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
ABSTRACT: is a healthy person protected from Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections, while individuals with cystic fibrosis or damaged epithelium are particularly susceptible to this opportunistic pathogen? In order to address this question, it is essential to thoroughly understand the dynamic interplay between the host microenvironment and P. aeruginosa . Therefore, using modeI systems that represent key aspects of human mucosal tissues in health and disease allows recreating in vivo host-pathogen interactions in a physiologically relevant manner. In this review, we discuss how factors of mucosal tissues, such as apical-basolateral polarity, junctional complexes, extracellular matrix proteins, mucus, multicellular complexity (including indigenous microbiota), and other physicochemical factors affect P. aeruginosa pathogenesis and are thus important to mimic in vitro . We highlight in vitro cell and tissue culture model systems of increasing complexity that have been used over the past 35 years to st...
METHODS: easy to set-up, maintain, monitor and manipulate, (iv) quickly ready for downstream assays (e.g., confluence is reached in 3–4 days for A549 cell line), and (v) high-throughput (e.g., multi-well assays). When 2-D monolayers of cell lines are used, a well-characterized homogeneous cell population is usually obtained, which results in high experimental reproducibility. On the other hand, 2-D monolayers often lack differentiation characteristics of the in vivo parental tissue, including 3-D architecture, phenotypic characteristics, multicellular complexity, and function. Specifically, most cell lines or primary cells grown as traditional monolayers on impermeable surfaces are not polarized, and thus do not express distinctive apical and basolateral markers (including surface receptors), which...
RESULTS: bench to the patient’s bedside. Introduction As a leading cause of life-threatening nosocomial infections, Pseudomonas aeruginosa has been extensively studied over the past 35 years. No currently available in vitro or in vivo model system is able to completely mimic the P. aeruginosa disease phenotype. Accordingly, the complexity of the host, pathogen and host-pathogen interactions has necessitated a combined use of different model systems to advance our understanding of P. aeruginosa infectious disease. P. aeruginosa is most commonly studied in the context of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, where chronic lung inflammation caused by this microorganism is believed to be the major source of mortality ( Yang, et al. , 2011 , Doring, et al. , 2012 ). In the thick, viscous CF lung mucus, P. aeru...
---
TITLE: Lack of norovirus replication and histo-blood group antigen expression in 3-dimensional intestinal epithelial cells
ABSTRACT: 3-dimensional intestinal model is not sufficient as a virus replication system for developing vaccines or drugs to control human norovirus infections. Keywords: norovirus replication, 3-D intestinal epithelial cell culture, INT-407, blood group H type antigens, Lewis blood-group system, human intestinal epithelial cells, rotating wall vessel bioreactor, Norwalk virus, viruses
METHODS: be properly cited. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC3647661 PMID: 23622517 TOC
RESULTS: no evidence of NV replication by real-time PCR of viral RNA or by immunocytochemical detection of viral structural and nonstructural proteins. Immunocytochemical analysis of the 3-D cultures also showed no detectable presence of histo-blood group antigens that participate in NV binding and host tropism. To determine the potential cause of CPE observed in the previous study, we exposed 3-D cultures to lipopolysaccharide concentrations consistent with contaminated stool samples and observed morphologic features similar to CPE. We conclude that the 3-D INT-407 model does not support NV replication. Norovirus (NoV) has been identified as the primary etiologic agent of acute epidemic viral gastroenteritis in industrialized countries ( 1 , 2 ). Norwalk virus (NV) is the human prototype GI.1 NoV ...
---
TITLE: Dose-dependent skeletal deficits due to varied reductions in mechanical loading in rats.
ABSTRACT: skeletal loading leads to marked bone loss. Animal models of hindlimb suspension are widely used to assess alterations in skeleton during the course of complete unloading. More recently, the effects of partial unloading on the musculoskeletal system have been interrogated in mice and rats, revealing dose-dependent effects of partial weight bearing (PWB) on the skeleton and skeletal muscle. Here, we extended these studies to determine the structural and functional skeletal alterations in 14-week-old male Wister rats exposed to 20%, 40%, 70%, or 100% of body weight for 1, 2, or 4 weeks ( n = 11–12/group). Using in vivo pQCT, we found that trabecular bone density at the proximal tibia declined in proportion to the degree of unloading and continued progressively with time, without evidence of a plateau by 4 weeks. Ex vivo measurements of trabecular microarchitecture in the distal femur by microcomputed tomography revealed deficits in bone volume fraction, 2 and 4 weeks after unloading. His...
METHODS: Male Wistar rats (Charles River Laboratories Inc., Wilmington, MA, USA) weighing 408 ± 0.15 g (14 weeks of age) were obtained and housed in a temperature-controlled (22 ± 2 °C) room with a 12:12-h light–dark cycle. Water and chow were provided ad libitum. Throughout the experiment, rats were assessed daily for any signs of pain or discomfort (e.g., porphyrin staining around eyes, poor grooming, and/or hair loss), harness and jacket fitting, ability to walk and move across the cage, as well as food and water intake. At the end of the study, rats were euthanized by CO 2 inhalation and hind limbs were harvested. After removing the surrounding soft tissue, the left femur was wrapped in saline-soaked gauze and stored at −20 °C for ex vivo microCT analysis and biomechanical testing, whereas the ...
RESULTS: that this rat model of PWB leads to trabecular bone deterioration that is progressive and generally proportional to the degree of PWB, with minimal effects on cortical bone. Subject terms: Experimental models of disease, Preclinical research Introduction Reduction in mechanical loading occurs in many settings, including cast immobilization, extended bed rest, neuromuscular disorders, spinal cord injury, and spaceflight. Though dependent on the duration and extent of unloading, these reductions in mechanical loading lead to marked skeletal fragility, with reported loss of bone mineral density (BMD) ranging from 10 to 40% 1 – 5 . Thus, there is a need to develop strategies to mitigate bone loss associated with reduction in mechanical loading. Such strategies would be best informed by a bette...
---
TITLE: Cosmic kidney disease: an integrated pan-omic, physiological and morphological study into spaceflight-induced renal dysfunction
ABSTRACT: into Deep Space are planned this decade. Yet the health consequences of exposure to microgravity and galactic cosmic radiation (GCR) over years-long missions on indispensable visceral organs such as the kidney are largely unexplored. We performed biomolecular (epigenomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, epiproteomic, metabolomic, metagenomic), clinical chemistry (electrolytes, endocrinology, biochemistry) and morphometry (histology, 3D imaging, miRNA-ISH, tissue weights) analyses using samples and datasets available from 11 spaceflight-exposed mouse and 5 human, 1 simulated microgravity rat and 4 simulated GCR-exposed mouse missions. We found that spaceflight induces: 1) renal transporter dephosphorylation which may indicate astronauts’ increased risk of nephrolithiasis is in part a primary renal phenomenon rather than solely a secondary consequence of bone loss; 2) remodelling of the nephron that
METHODS: Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium 13 Center for Medical Genetics, Department of Biomolecular Medicine, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium Find articles by Michael B Vaughan 11, 12, 13 , Chris Cheshire Chris Cheshire 14 Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Laboratory, The Francis Crick Institute, London, UK Find articles by Chris Cheshire 14 , Laura Cubitt Laura Cubitt 15 Applied Biotechnology Laboratory, The Francis Crick Institute, London, UK Find articles by Laura Cubitt 15 , Jessica Broni-Tabi Jessica Broni-Tabi 16 Sainsbury Wellcome Centre for Neural Circuits and Behaviour, University College London, London, UK Find articles by Jessica Broni-Tabi 16 , Maneera Yousef Al-Jaber Maneera Yousef Al-Jaber 17 Anti-Doping Laboratory Qatar, Doha, Qatar Find articles by Maneera Yousef Al-Jaber 1...
RESULTS: expansion of distal convoluted tubule size but loss of overall tubule density; 3) renal damage and dysfunction when exposed to a Mars roundtrip dose-equivalent of simulated GCR. Subject terms: Nephrons, Renal calculi, Thrombotic microangiopathies, Sequencing, Mass spectrometry Siew et al. using multi-omic, physiological & imaging approaches have demonstrated that spaceflight causes kidney remodelling, suggesting a contribution to kidney stone formation, & that space radiation causes kidney damage & early signs of dysfunction. Introduction The renewed zeitgeist for space travel, ushered in by the advent of commercial spaceflight and tourism, has spurred on state-funded agencies to embark on even more ambitious exploratory ‘Deep Space’ missions. The first of these, namely the Artemis Program...
---
TITLE: Microgravity induces pelvic bone loss through osteoclastic activity, osteocytic osteolysis, and osteoblastic cell cycle inhibition by CDKN1a/p21
ABSTRACT: is a dynamically remodeled tissue that requires gravity-mediated mechanical stimulation for maintenance of mineral content and structure. Homeostasis in bone occurs through a balance in the activities and signaling of osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes, as well as proliferation and differentiation of their stem cell progenitors. Microgravity and unloading are known to cause osteoclast-mediated bone resorption; however, we hypothesize that osteocytic osteolysis, and cell cycle arrest during osteogenesis may also contribute to bone loss in space. To test this possibility, we exposed 16-week-old female C57BL/6J mice (n = 8) to microgravity for 15-days on the STS-131 space shuttle mission. Analysis of the pelvis by µCT shows decreases in bone volume fraction (BV/TV) of 6.29%, and bone thickness of 11.91%. TRAP-positive osteoclast-covered trabecular bone surfaces also increased in microgravity by 170% (p = 0.004), indicating osteoclastic bone degeneration. High-resolution X-ray nanoCT...
METHODS: tools: PP RKG BPB EA. Wrote the paper: EAB EA. Roles Jean-Marc Vanacker : Editor Received 2012 Nov 14; Accepted 2013 Mar 7; Collection date 2013. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Public Domain declaration, which stipulates that, once placed in the public domain, this work may be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, modified, built upon, or otherwise used by anyone for any lawful purpose. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC3630201 PMID: 23637819
RESULTS: the pelvic and femoral region of the mouse skeleton as an active site of rapid bone loss in microgravity, and indicate that this loss is not limited to osteoclastic degradation. Therefore, this study offers new evidence for microgravity-induced osteocytic osteolysis, and CDKN1a/p21-mediated osteogenic cell cycle arrest. Introduction On Earth, at 1 g, mechanical loading of mammalian tissues is an important factor in maintaining tissue health and promoting normal regenerative growth. Forces generated by gravity such as hydrostatic pressure, stretch, and fluid shear are well known to promote normal tissue growth and repair mechanisms. Conversely, during spaceflight, gravity-generated forces are absent and the mechanical stimulation of tissues is greatly diminished. Direct and immediate physio...
---
TITLE: Single-cell analysis identifies conserved features of immune dysfunction in simulated microgravity and spaceflight
ABSTRACT: is associated with immunological dysfunction, though the mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, using single-cell analysis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) exposed to short term (25 hours) simulated microgravity, we characterize altered genes and pathways at basal and stimulated states with a Toll-like Receptor-7/8 agonist. We validate single-cell analysis by RNA sequencing and super-resolution microscopy, and against data from the Inspiration-4 (I4) mission, JAXA (Cell-Free Epigenome) mission, Twins study, and spleens from mice on the International Space Station. Overall, microgravity alters specific pathways for optimal immunity, including the cytoskeleton, interferon signaling, pyroptosis, temperature-shock, innate inflammation (e.g., Coronavirus pathogenesis pathway and IL-6 signaling), nuclear receptors, and sirtuin signaling. Microgravity directs monocyte inflammatory parameters, and impairs T cell and NK cell functionality. Using machine learning, we identify...
METHODS: next developed a single-cell atlas of 55,648 human PBMCs exposed to these conditions. In the unstimulated state, after 25 hours of simulated microgravity, we identified 28 clusters of immune cells visualized by UMAP (Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection), including cell types such as mucosal associated invariant T cells (MAIT cells), double negative T cells, γδ T cells, innate lymphoid cells, and plasmacytoid dendritic cells, which have rarely been studied in simulated microgravity (Fig. 1A ). Simulated microgravity altered proportions of immune cell clusters to a mild extent, with B intermediate cells, and MAIT cell proportions being most negatively impacted, and CD14 + monocytes, and CD4 + T effector memory (TEM) cells being most increased based on percent change (Fig. 1B ). Acr...
RESULTS: immune cell alterations in microgravity, and provide opportunities for countermeasures to maintain normal immunity in space. Subject terms: Adaptive immunity, Innate immunity, Gene regulation in immune cells, Space physics The phenotype and function of immune cells could change during spaceflight. Here the authors use simulated microgravity, coupled to validation with spaceflight data, to assess whether there are distinct gene expression changes in resting and TLR 7/8 stimulated PBMCs and found conserved changes in IFN signalling, the cytoskeleton, IL-6 and sirtuin signalling. Introduction Astronauts in low earth orbit (LEO), such as on the international space station (ISS), experience immune dysfunction associated with the microgravity environment. Multiple studies have described immune d...
---
TITLE: The Space Omics and Medical Atlas (SOMA) and international astronaut biobank
ABSTRACT: induces molecular, cellular and physiological shifts in astronauts and poses myriad biomedical challenges to the human body, which are becoming increasingly relevant as more humans venture into space 1 – 6 . Yet current frameworks for aerospace medicine are nascent and lag far behind advancements in precision medicine on Earth, underscoring the need for rapid development of space medicine databases, tools and protocols. Here we present the Space Omics and Medical Atlas (SOMA), an integrated data and sample repository for clinical, cellular and multi-omic research profiles from a diverse range of missions, including the NASA Twins Study 7 , JAXA CFE study 8 , 9 , SpaceX Inspiration4 crew 10 – 12 , Axiom and Polaris. The SOMA resource represents a more than tenfold increase in publicly available human space omics data, with matched samples available from the Cornell Aerospace Medicine Biobank. The Atlas includes extensive molecular and physiological profiles encompassing genomics, epigen...
METHODS: cross-mission DEG comparison highlighted a consistent response between both types of T cells, including CD4 + and CD8 + markers (552 and 608 DEGs, respectively, both <2.2 × 10 −16 ), across both sorted T cells or single-cell annotated cells (Fig. 2b ). Conversely, B cells were less responsive to spaceflight, as expected from previous work in the Twins Study 7 , which showed B cells as either not significant or less responsive to spaceflight. For the four overlapping cytokines measured in the Twins Study with our panel, we found significant increases in three: IL-6 ( P = 0.014), IL-10 ( P = 0.021) and CCL2 ( P = 0.040) (Fig. 2c ); these cytokines also showed changes and similar increases in other long-duration (more than 6 months) crews (Fig. 2c ). However, we also ran a differential analys...
RESULTS: previous missions and control datasets, creating the largest-to-date molecular atlas of the effect of spaceflight on the human body, encompassing almost 3,000 samples and over 75 billion sequenced nucleic acids. Collectively, these resources are referred to as SOMA, and the samples are linked to a Cornell Aerospace Medicine Biobank (CAMbank) that stores viably frozen specimens for future, additional analyses. As with Earth-based cohorts 13 , these accessible data — when profiled and aggregated at scale — will enable the development of both personalized and general medical guidance for astronauts 14 . A large group of subject matter experts in artificial intelligence has recently released recommendations focused on the importance of generating and archiving space data into the NASA Open Sci...
---
TITLE: Secretome profiling reveals acute changes in oxidative stress, brain homeostasis, and coagulation following short-duration spaceflight
ABSTRACT: spaceflight becomes more common with commercial crews, blood-based measures of crew health can guide both astronaut biomedicine and countermeasures. By profiling plasma proteins, metabolites, and extracellular vesicles/particles (EVPs) from the SpaceX Inspiration4 crew, we generated “spaceflight secretome profiles,” which showed significant differences in coagulation, oxidative stress, and brain-enriched proteins. While >93% of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in vesicles and metabolites recovered within six months, the majority (73%) of plasma DAPs were still perturbed post-flight. Moreover, these proteomic alterations correlated better with peripheral blood mononuclear cells than whole blood, suggesting that immune cells contribute more DAPs than erythrocytes. Finally, to discern possible mechanisms leading to brain-enriched protein detection and blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, we examined protein changes in dissected brains of spaceflight mice, which showed increases in...
METHODS: the ~30,000 genes detected in PBMCs, 273 genes were detected in both plasma and EVPs (Fig. 4a ). In addition, 1131 genes were uniquely reflected in the plasma proteome while 163 genes were uniquely found in the EVP proteome (Fig. 4a ). Fig. 4. Immune cells contribute to the observed secretome changes after spaceflight. Open in a new tab a Upset plot of identified genes in PBMC and identified proteins in EVPs and plasma. b Overlap of immune cell DEGs, plasma DAPs, and EVP daps. Up-regulated genes/proteins (Immune cells: p -value < 0.05, secretome: adjusted p -value < 0.05, fold change > 0) are depicted in orange. Down-regulated genes/proteins (Immune cells: p -value < 0.05, secretome: adjusted p -value < 0.05, fold change <0) are depicted in colored purple. Non-significant genes/proteins ar...
RESULTS: an increased number of samples, larger coverage of metabolomics, broader coverage of plasma proteomics, longitudinal data of EVP proteomics, and a systematic integration and meta-analysis of secretome changes with other multi-omic data 7 . The SpaceX inspiration4 (i4) mission provided the first opportunity for such an expanded study, and it also was notable as the first all-civilian space flight mission, featuring 2 male and 2 female astronauts aged 29 to 50 years, who traveled into space for 3 days in orbit at 590 km altitude. We profiled the spaceflight secretome (plasma proteome and metabolome, and EVP proteome) of the i4 astronauts at three pre-flight (L-92, L-44, L-3) and three post-flight timepoints (R + 1, R + 45, R + 82). We performed differential and pathway enrichment analysis of...
---
TITLE: Astronaut omics and the impact of space on the human body at scale
ABSTRACT: multi-year crewed planetary missions will motivate advances in aerospace nutrition and telehealth. On Earth, the Human Cell Atlas project aims to spatially map all cell types in the human body. Here, we propose that a parallel Human Cell Space Atlas could serve as an openly available, global resource for space life science research. As humanity becomes increasingly spacefaring, high-resolution omics on orbit could permit an advent of precision spaceflight healthcare. Alongside the scientific potential, we consider the complex ethical, cultural, and legal challenges intrinsic to the human space omics discipline, and how philosophical frameworks may benefit from international perspectives. Subject terms: Gene expression, Medical genomics, Molecular medicine High-resolution omics data have facilitated the ongoing Human Cell Atlas project. In this Perspective, Rutter and colleagues propose that a parallel Human Cell Space Atlas initiative would provide a platform for spaceflight-associated...
METHODS: forward, the majority of sampling on astronauts would likely consist of liquid biopsy approaches and other non-invasive and minimally invasive procedures. Traditional tissue biopsies carry a risk of infection and localized pain which could compromise astronaut health and performance in physical tasks such as spacewalks. Furthermore, less invasive sampling methods are often quick to perform and do not require significant recovery periods between samples, which can allow for more frequent sampling and thus greater temporal resolution of omic changes throughout missions. The feasibility of orbital sampling and readout can be explored for various biological sources, such as saliva, sweat, tears, urine, and nasal discharge, some of which have been reviewed in the context of human spaceflight el...
RESULTS: failed to hold up upon further testing. The risk of overinterpretation is particularly relevant in the field of human space omics given the small sample sizes and the small number of studies 3 ; the difficulty of securing suitable ground controls, both in omics and environment 3 , 17 ; and the long number of years required to replicate
---
TITLE: Transcriptomics analysis reveals molecular alterations underpinning spaceflight dermatology.
ABSTRACT: Spaceflight poses a unique set of challenges to humans and the hostile spaceflight environment can induce a wide range of increased health risks, including dermatological issues. The biology driving the frequency of skin issues in astronauts is currently not well understood.
METHODS: address this issue, we used a systems biology approach utilizing NASA’s Open Science Data Repository (OSDR) on space flown murine transcriptomic datasets focused on the skin, biochemical profiles of 50 NASA astronauts and human transcriptomic datasets generated from blood and hair samples of JAXA astronauts, as well as blood samples obtained from the NASA Twins Study, and skin and blood samples from the first civilian commercial mission, Inspiration4.
RESULTS: biological changes related to skin health, DNA damage & repair, and mitochondrial dysregulation are identified as potential drivers for skin health risks during spaceflight. Additionally, a machine learning model is utilized to determine gene pairings associated with spaceflight response in the skin. While we identified spaceflight-induced dysregulation, such as alterations in genes associated with skin barrier function and collagen formation, our results also highlight the remarkable ability for organisms to re-adapt back to Earth via post-flight re-tuning of gene expression.
---
TITLE: Spaceflight induces changes in gene expression profiles linked to insulin and estrogen
ABSTRACT: adaptations to spaceflight have been characterized at the molecular level in model organisms, including Drosophila and C. elegans . Here, we extend molecular work to energy metabolism and sex hormone signaling in mice and humans. We found spaceflight induced changes in insulin and estrogen signaling in rodents and humans. Murine changes were most prominent in the liver, where we observed inhibition of insulin and estrogen receptor signaling with concomitant hepatic insulin resistance and steatosis. Based on the metabolic demand, metabolic pathways mediated by insulin and estrogen vary among muscles, specifically between the soleus and extensor digitorum longus. In humans, spaceflight induced changes in insulin and estrogen related genes and pathways. Pathway analysis demonstrated spaceflight induced changes in insulin resistance, estrogen signaling, stress response, and viral infection. These data strongly suggest the need for further research on the metabolic and reproductive endocrin...
METHODS: and sample collection All omics data related to mouse samples were obtained from NASA’s GeneLab public omics repository 86 . The data derived from spaceflight experiments carried out onboard the ISS as part of the Rodent Research-1 (RR-1), RR-5, RR-7, and MHU-2 missions. A description of the experimental design, the corresponding type of tissues, and the data accessed are summarized in Supplementary Table 1 . All previous animal experiments and methods were performed in accordance with the relevant guidelines at each principal investigators’ institutions and were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use committee (IACUC). A detailed description of the
RESULTS: insulin resistance and dysglycemia 15 – 17 . Estrogen receptors promote pancreatic cell survival, enhance insulin production, and improve insulin sensitivity 18 , 19 . Female and male ESR1 −/− mice both display reduced GLUT4 expression, further emphasizing the role of estrogen in glycemic control 14 . Clinically, compared to premenopausal women, postmenopausal women have an increased risk of adverse metabolic profiles such as type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, impaired glucose and lipid profiles, increased android fat deposition, sarcopenia, and osteoporosis 20 . Estrogens also positively correlate with bone and muscle mass and are protective against disuse atrophy 21 . Thus, there is substantial reason to believe that insulin and estrogen signaling are key pathways regulating health in ...
---
TITLE: Longitudinal multi-omics analysis of host microbiome architecture and immune responses during short-term spaceflight
ABSTRACT: of astronaut health during spaceflight will require monitoring and potentially modulating their microbiomes. However, documenting microbial shifts during spaceflight has been difficult due to mission constraints that lead to limited sampling and profiling. Here we executed a six-month longitudinal study to quantify the high-resolution human microbiome response to three days in orbit for four individuals. Using paired metagenomics and metatranscriptomics alongside single-nuclei immune cell profiling, we characterized time-dependent, multikingdom microbiome changes across 750 samples and 10 body sites before, during and after spaceflight at eight timepoints. We found that most alterations were transient across body sites; for example, viruses increased in skin sites mostly during flight. However, longer-term shifts were observed in the oral microbiome, including increased plaque-associated bacteria (for example, Fusobacteriota ), which correlated with immune cell gene expression. Further...
METHODS: with one line had either no significant findings or none that met the filtering criteria. Grey shaded area indicates 95% confidence intervals. The orange shaded area refers to the samples collected while subjects were in orbit. c , Significant features by specific swabbing sites. Source data We used a diverse set of short-read alignment and de novo assembly approaches to estimate the microbial community taxonomic and functional composition of our dataset (Extended Data Fig. 1 , Methods and Supplementary Figs. 1 – 7 ). We queried whether the conditions of short-term spaceflight (potentially including, for example, microgravity, radiation or altered dietary and cleaning habits) altered overall bacterial and viral community composition and expression consistently across the crews. Via a linea...
RESULTS: a standardized approach for temporally monitoring microbial exposomic changes as a function of spaceflight and, in total, characterize the microbiome architecture 26 of biomedically relevant taxa that are activated or repressed during short-term spaceflight. Results The human microbiome is altered in short-term spaceflight The i4 crew collected a microbiome dataset spanning eight timepoints: three before flight, three after flight and two during flight. In total, we sequenced 385 metagenomic and 365 metatranscriptomic swabs comprising ten body sites representing the oral, nasal and skin microbiomes ( n = 750 samples, Fig. 1a ), plus eight stool samples (from two participants before and after flight). Locations inside the Dragon capsule were swabbed twice in flight and also before spaceflig...
---
TITLE: Protective alleles and precision healthcare in crewed spaceflight
ABSTRACT: and rare alleles are now being annotated across millions of human genomes, and omics technologies are increasingly being used to develop health and treatment recommendations. However, these alleles have not yet been systematically characterized relative to aerospace medicine. Here, we review published alleles naturally found in human cohorts that have a likely protective effect, which is linked to decreased cancer risk and improved bone, muscular, and cardiovascular health. Although some technical and ethical challenges remain, research into these protective mechanisms could translate into improved nutrition, exercise, and health recommendations for crew members during deep space missions. Subject terms: Rare variants, Personalized medicine As space travel promises to become a reality for more humans, insights from human genetics could serve to inform space medicine. Here, the authors overview genetic variants that might confer a protective effect in space, and ethical and technical ch...
METHODS: combat clinical conditions that space travelers routinely suffer when exposed to altered gas composition in spacecraft. Human cohorts: Isolated populations Isolated populations have also revealed alleles linked to alleviated clinical manifestations of diseases like atherosclerosis and cancer (Fig. 3 ). For instance, in a patient from Limone sul Garda (an isolated village in Northern Italy), the APOA1 R173C mutation was associated with low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels and elevated triglycerides, but unexpectedly no atherosclerotic disease 47 . When the complete Limone sul Garda population was sampled ( n = 1000 total), 33 living carriers of the “ApoA-1 Milano” mutation were identified 47 , all with low HDL, and yet low incidence of heart disease. Genealogical analysis using church ...
RESULTS: Humankind has entered a new chapter of deep space exploration, with numerous institutions worldwide publicly aspiring toward a sustainable human presence on the Moon and Mars, which is also broadening the diversity of humans in space. In the past two years, the first person with a prosthetic leg entered space (Inspiration4), and the first person with a physical disability was selected for professional astronaut training by the European Space Agency (ESA). The next few years of spaceflight also feature planned missions to the circumlunar environment after a half-century hiatus, including the first crewed commercial lunar flyby (a team of artists and civilians for the dearMoon project), further broadening the range of people going into space. Moreover, while a steady increase in female space...
---